# 104-10105-10271

## Page 1

4-00000

104-10105-10271

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCIASSiFIED

NAL

CONFIC

* ONLY

ATIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Oniy

Do Nol Reproduce

FROM:

EXTENSION

7520

NO.

Seymour R. Bolten

E 14

DATE 19 September 1974

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and

DATE

building)

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom. Drow a line across column after each camment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1.

Mr.

OGC

John

• Morrison

7 D

01

2.

6.

7.

1.

Attached is an ad-

vanced informal copy of our

proposed security deletions

and revisions of the Hunt

galley proof.

Please note

that this list has not yet

been reviewed by Mr. Blee

and is, therefore, still

subject to change.

2. The DDO panel that

reviewed the Hunt manuscript

has designated items, numbered

12, 14, 19,

21, 24 and 25, as

"hard core," by which we mean

that the Agency should insist

on their deletion or revision

and be prepared to obtain an

injunction and engage in

litigation should Hunt refuse

to cooperate.

Seymour R. Bolten

SAB/ DDO

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

FORM

3-02

1893

is made

CIA HISTURICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

610 USE RESUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CÃ CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL:

USE ONLY

C/0

UNCLASSIFIED

---

## Page 2

4-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT:

Manuscript and Galley Proof of Undercover:

Memoirs of an American Agent by E. Howard Hunt

NOTES: A.

B.

Pages and lines underlined

and appearing at the begin-

ning of the items below

refer to the galley proof.

Corresponding page and line

listings as

they appear in

the manuscript are provided

in brackets at the end of

each item.

меш

1.

page 57, line, o from bottom of page; the name

Pleasants'

Mi. Pleasants/retired under cover and his past

relationship should not be exposed.

It is also recommended

that efforts be made to have the name "John Richardson" also

removed from the same sentence containing Mr-[Pleasants) name.

(Page 96, line 17.)

2.

Page 59, line 38 beginning with "However" and ending

on page 60, line 2 with "milieu"

Rutherford T.

"Pinky" Walsh

retired undor cover and his CIA relationship should not bel

exposed. His assignment in/

similarly classified.

The description of this activity jus lle

instate pen be ore the t A a and the Tench barringey

(0.*)

unilateral operations in France] (Item 4 below) is potentially

an additionally damaging blow to liaison relationships. (Page

100, lines 10-14.)

CONFIDENTIAL

CIl

---

## Page 3

WUINLTINL

• 3. Page 63, line 21; the name

"Frank Holcomb"

Mr. Holconb retired under cover and is past relationship

with the CIA should not be exposed. It is additionally

reconmended that the entire paragraph wherein Mr. Holcomb's

name appears (lines 21-24) should be deleted because it ac-

CIA operations in support of ánti-communist political

operations in Italy.. (page 105, lines 18-21.)

4. Page 63, line 30 beginning with. "By" and ending with

"arrangement" on

"assage deleted see paston not one ene pet tent

It is recommended that this

Zyto the narrative but it unnecessarily jars laison with the

/ British/and is an implied insult to the French liaison services.

•(page I06, lines 4-7.)

5: Page 66 beginning with "Finis" on line 24 and ending

with "world" on line 21.

This passage describes a specific ChA

operation which resulted in the production and distribution of

an animated cartoon based on George Orwell's Animal Farm.

(Page 111, lines 6-9.)

6. Page 68, the pseudonym "John F. Rittenhouse" on line 34

The author's original CIA pseudonym was classified,

and even

though

compromised, never appeared in the press and still exists

on various currently classified documents. (page 114, line 23.)

1. Page 71, beginning with "Spanish" on line 28 and ending

with "America" on line 20, page 72,

and including the footnotes

on pages 71 and 72.

This passage should be deleted because it

describes the Agency's role in subsidizing, producing and dis-

tributing) "El Campesino's" book, Life and Death in the USSR:

(pages 120 [lines 4-20, including footnote] - 121 [lines

1-16,

including footnote.1)

Page 72 beginning with "Eudocia" on line 21 and ending

with "Scribner's" on line 32.

This should be deleted because

it describes the Agency's

role in the translation, (publishing?

and distribution/of Eudocio Ravines' book,

The Yenan Way.

also describes William Buckley's role in that operation as

CIA officer.

(Page 121, lines 17-23 and page 122, lines 1-6.)

Page 73 beginning with "Mexican" on line 5 through

"Rivera" on line 8.

This should be deleted because it not only

describes sources and methods but also identifies a specific

CIA operation.

(Page 122, lines

• 19-21 and page 123, line 1.)

maintains

C/2

Y/mc

---

## Page 4

4-00000

CU HUENHAL

Page 73 beginning with "Communism" on line 14 and

ending with "reputation" on line 15

This passage could serve

to identity a former asset in Mexico who is still living. (Page

123, lines 7-8.)

11.

Page 73 beginning with "cover" on line l7 through

"legend" on line 19.

This should

be deleted because it identifiesch

a CIA-sponsored cover arrangement in Bangkok. rurthermore, thi

particular type of cover.

the movie industry, has tigured in

earlier unfavorable publicity to CIA in other Southeast Asian

countries

and thus serves to further render suspect the use of

cover in still other areas. (Page 123, lines 10-12.)

Page 73 beginning with "planned" on line 22 through

"authentic" on Jine

sof page 14 and including the footnote on

page 74.

This should be deleted because it describes a specific

operation involving the forgery of a page of the Shanghai Post],

also includes descriptions of sources and methods. (Page 123,

lines 15-23 and all of page 124 including footnote.)

13.

Page 77 beginning with "technical" on line 19 through

"station" on line 21.

This should be deleted because it describes

and authenticates a CIA operation. (Page 131, lines 2-4:)

Page 80 beginning with "surreptitious-entry" on line 9

through "Embassy" on line 12.

This should be deleted

because it describes

a specific, sensitive operation as well aszu

sensitive sources and methods including the acquisition of code

materials. (Page 136, line 3 through page 139, line 20.)

Page 86 beginning with "Greek" on line 18 through

"countries" on line 20.

This should be deleted because 1t

identifies a specific operation and the foreign assets involved

in its support..

(Page 147, lines 6-8.)

95 beginning with "quasi-military" on line 1l

through

"East" on line 16.

This should be deleted because it

describes various cover and support facilities used in Far East 1

Asian countries. (Page 163, lines 6-11.)

17: Page 95 beginning with "Hong Kong" on line 16 through

"Branch" on line 19.

This should be deleted because it describes

an operation conducted jointly with a liaison service in Hono

Kong targetted against mainland China and as such is not only

damaging to current American detente efforts but is particularly

menacing to Hong Kong authorities in view of their proximity and

susceptibility to potential Chinese retallatory pressures.

(Page

•163, lines 11-14.)

titute

PaNt E лен мо

CONFIDENTIAL

midependent justice

C/3

3/жс

---

## Page 5

18.

Page 99 beginning with "disrupting" on line 5 through

"display" on line 27 and including the footnote on page 99.

This passage describes specific CiA operations/in Tokyo targetted

against China and as such are not only damaging to current detent

efforts but are also disruptive to liaison relationships with

the Japanese.

(Page (Page line line through, page 170, line 22,1

including foötnote..

Page 102 beginning with "Despite" on line

hrough

"returned" on line 10.

This should be deleted

becaus

it de

scribes a specific and sensitive CIA operation includ

ps Code y

materials (Page 175, lines 10-15.).

. Page 105 beginning with "wiretap" on

6 thròugh

"surreptitious-entry"

on line

T. Ought to be

eleted since it

refers

• sensitive Agency sources and methods.

(Page 181,

lines 2-3.)

21. Page 108 beginning with "tap" on line 17 through

"Embassy" on line 7

¿ page 109.

This passage deals

intermittently

Page 109 beginning with "FBI" on line 21 through

"station" on line 26.

operation which began with the FBI's spotting

Soviet intelligence agent. Since this information was then

turned over to the Agency, a question arises concerning the

need to seek the FBI's prior comments. (Page 189, lines 6-11.)

23. Page I1l beginning with "The" on line 22 through

"triumvirate" on line 23.

It would seem that an effort ought

to be made to have this passage deleted of changed since its,u

damage potential to liaison relationships with the

Tis considerable,

and it does jeopardize the current

careers and livelihoods of the Agency's contacts. who are re-

ferred to by date and position and thus, are identifiable.

(Page 192, lines 21-22.)

24. Page 115 beginning with "I" on line 23 through

"department" on line 35.

This passage should be deleted

because it describes Agency methods of operation -- acquisi-

tion and passage of information to and from a liaison service

as well as an overall Agency program of operational activities y

within

Uruguay involving the 'monitoring of forty-two telephone

lines)'. Page 200, lines 6-18.)

194/

CONFIDENTIAL

C4

---

## Page 6

4-00000

TITISAGI

•125.

Page 116 beginning with "technical" on line 10

through "secrets" on line 29.

this passage should be deletec

recause it describes a sensitive operation conduciedi

(Page 201, lines 12-23 and page 202, lines 1-9.)

24

26.

Page 122 beginning with "The" ön line & through

"Djilas" on line 9.

This passage should be deleted because it

attests to the Agency's subsidization of publication/of Djilas'

book.

In addition an effort ought to be. made to hae the author

remove or appropriately alter the rest of the paragraph wherein

he refers to an Agency news service located in

"Washington's

National Press Building". (Page 211, line 4.)

interpretations. (Page 212, lines 4-5.)

28.

Page 123 beginning with "Soon"

"Madrid" on line 35.

This passage deals with the author's work

on several "Peter Ward" books and, later,

his assignment to

Madrid.

It is recommended that OGC's attention be called to

this passage. (Page 212, last line through page 213, lines 1-23.)

Page 126 beginning with "Chief) on last line through

"officers" on page 127, line 5.

This passage should be deleted

study" are unwarranted disclosures of Agency methods. (Page 219,

lines 8-13.)

30.

Page 130 beginning with "Free" on line 20 through "CIA"

on line

21.

This phrase should be deleted b

to affect the life of one of the principals of the Free Cuba

Committee,

is naw employed by the State Department. (Page & contact, who

, Lines 10-1l..

31.

Page 150, all of lines 14 through to.

It would appear

that this description of the author's contactiwith Dr. Barney

Malloy of CIA is very unfair to the latter.

1a implies that

Hunt had a special relationship with Dr. Malloy and an effort

ought to be made by OGC to have

the author rewyite this versior

in order to reflect Dr. Malloy's true role in this

affair.

Page 260, lines 22-23 through page 261, lines 4-2.)

CONSIDENTIA:

BR

C/5

---

## Page 7

• CONFIDENTIA

32. Page 220, lines 5 through 10. This passage concern-

ing the use of CiA alias documentation by Hunt and others in-

cludes loose language which implies that still another set of

documents was prepared by the CIA for Hunt's use --- i.e., a

set of documents which was not mentioned during

the recent

Congressional "Watergate hearings". As such this is misleading

and could serve to create additional difficulties for the Agency.

It is recommended that the OGC make an effort to have the author

rewrite this paragraph in order that this potentially damaging

language be removed from his manuscript.

387, lines 4-9.)

old "old

it descritin 7

Locuments

CONFiDENTIA

C1b

---

