# 104-10218-10013

## Page 1

14-00000

104-10218-10013

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN.F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLS/NUMBER/VOLUE:

ITKI, HERBERT

0201-836808

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

DATE

RECEIYED

DATE

RETURNED

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL

AOT REVIEVED BY HISCA

NO DOCLIENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

---

## Page 2

14-00000

fait

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEXINATION

CLASSIFIED

MESSAGE

FERSONIDNT NOTTILO

SECRET

10051

Treates

(#: an filled In)

ADVANCE JUNT

_ SLOTTED

BETCH OF TOS COPY FROUTE.

BY:

DISSEN BY SU

ACTION UNST

2148

FER

FILE

DOC. MICRO. SER.

SEP 1 5 1972

200

ACTION

SECRET 2822342 AUG

72 STAFF

55 D001

CITE SANTO DOMINGO

13899

DIRECIOR.

WOMUSE EMPYREX

771-236108.

1 EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISES HERBERT

IIK IN ARRIVED

SANTO DOMINGO 22 AUG 72 FROM NEW YORK PAA 235 PROMIBITED

ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK SAME DAY PAA 236. ITKIN BORN

NEW YORK, US. PP B 1220178.

2. NO STATION TRACES. EMPYREX RECORDS INDICATE SUBJ

BLACKLISTED BECAUSE HE ENGAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS

MAFIA CONNECTIONS. ACCRODING SAME FILE, NY TIMES REPORTED

SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO BACROWN ON PERSONS IN DOPREP.

3. TRACES REQUESTED:

A. INDEX. FILE 281-83480822-2-2813. EZ IMPDET WH-SISM.

SECRET

HOLINE ANCION INITILEStER BY

53.

694715

103

PS

BX

TI

"A."

CS COPY

SECRET

1-22-2-2013

28. AuG 72

201-836808

---

## Page 3

14-00000

C-ELISACETH VLITER: BA

2 Ml/7/DR

EAT: 4156

=AIE.29 AUGUST 1922

CABLE SICRETARIAT DISSLAINATION

Mr scat sara

TOTAL CORES:

_1E-3

SECRET

I HO INDEX

A FILE Di CO PILE NO-

• FETURTETO _

— BNANCH

O TILE RIC

cong:

wH8

(ciessrirce.ion)

SECRET

2522072 83

50C

Str 2 = 1972

GIE DIRECTOR

N2000

140rl

TO SANTO DOMINGO.

3p69447

REF SANTO DOMINGO 13099 (IN.694715)

21°

i. BELOW ARE ILLUSTRATIVE TRICES HERBERT IT K IN (201-836808) •

PARTNER LAW FIRY ITKIN, ROBERTS, GREENBAUM, NEI: YORK. REGISTERED AGENT

FOR "HAITIAN GOVERNVENT IN EXILE" REPRESENTING LOUIS DEJOIE

(201-240483) AND OTHER HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS 1965. REPORTEDLY FURNISHED

MONEY TO GROUP INVADING HAITI AUG 63. A AND B ARE FOR STATION USE ONLY.

A. HAITIAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE USED SUBJECT'S OFFICES IN

NEW YORK CITY; SUBJ SAID HE MADE PERSONAL LOAS CF $15,000 TO

•DEJOIE. (DBA-63510, 19 FEB 64) .

B. SUBJECT'S FORMER FATHER-IN-LAW' CALLED NODISH, NEW YORK

TO SAY SUBJ CLOSELY TIED TO BACRONT, GIVING IT HUCH ASSISTANCE

АБ

HAITI AND ELSENHERE,. IMPLYING SUBJ TRUSTED INFORMANT OR AGENT,

NOT STAFF EMPLOYEE. MARNED BICROWN SUB NOT DESIRABLE BECAUSE

DOUBTS RE RELIABILITY, DISCRETION, ABILITY TO MEET FINANCIAL

BX

023/14512

OBLIGATIONS, AND MENTAL EQUILIBRIUM. (KODISH MESO, 15 FEB 66)

C:

NEW YORK TINES, 9 MARCH E8, REPORTED U.S. OFFICIAL

• DESCRIBED SUBJ AS UNDERCOVER AGENT NHO INFILTRATED ORGANIZED

2964673

ES COPY (COSTISUED...)

D-22-2-20/3

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

221-8368081

AUTHETITICATIMO

SECRET

OFFICEA

REFZODUCTION EY OTHER IHA THE ISSUES OFFiCE iS PACRIFTED

COPY-NO.

i a not tied as

---

## Page 4

14-00000

CaIG: ELISABETH VETTER: BA

UNITI

EXTE

. DATE:

, CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSESINATOR )

BY.

CONFI

-PIR

MIISTAGEIEAA

TOTAL CURES:

SECRET

ZINE TO NO INOSE I RETURN TO —

RECOVERE IN ES FILE NO

IPTEDI

_ BRANCH

O PILE FIO

1 FILE, VR.

Tests ens fire foes)

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR

366944

CRINE, REPORTING REGULARLY, TO LAERGO. ONE HIGH OFFICIAL SAID

7

SUBJ. RISKED HIS LIFE TO "STAND UP TO 'AFIA." ARTICLE ALSO STATES

SUBJ REGISTERED SEPT 63 AS FOREIGN AGENT DOM REP, MAKING NUMEROUS

TRIPS THERE. (TV-ING COPY THIS ITEM.)'

D. WASHINGTON POST, 19 JULY

68, REPORTED SIX ALLEGED

ASSOCIATES OF SUBJ, A KEY FIGURE IN JADES L. MARCUS (FORMER NYC

WATER COSMISSIONER) KICKBACK CASE, INDICATED CHARGES OF ANOTHER

„KICKBACK CONSPIRACY INVOLVING VERTGAGE APPLICATICNS MADE TO

TEAKSTERS UNIOS PENSION FUND; TO OF SIX ALLEGED ASSCCIATES

• IDENTIFIED AS MAFIA MENBERS. SUBJ NOT INDICTED BUT NAVED IN

FOUR OVERT ACTS CITED INDICTNENT.

E. NEN YORK DAILY NERS, 15 CCT 68, REPORTED SUBJ, LABOR

LANTER, TRYING HAVE

HIS TRIAL MOVED FROM STATE TO FEDERAL COURT,

CONTENDING HE ACTING AS LNERGO AND BKCROIN AGENT IN CONSECTION

ABOVE CASE.

z.

JULY 68 CHECK NUNEROUS BICRONT COMPONENTS FAILED REVEAL ANY

CONNECTION BETWEEN SUBJ AND BACROWN.

?"3. FILE: 201-836808 AND 22-2-20/3.

E 2 IMPDET

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATiNG OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

'tomatia?

IN OUT-ENTIATIN

SECRET

REPROSUCTION BY OTHE: THAN THE SEES OFFICE IS PECHISTED.

•come na

2 9 223

---

## Page 5

14-00000

593G ELISABET:! VETTER:Da

144814

EXT:

DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT CISSEMINATIEN

BY_

PER

CONF,

FILE.VR

PESSAGEFORIA

TOTAL COFTIS:

SECRET

O RETURN TO.

-ĐHANCH

D FILERIO

I FILE IN CS PILE NO.-

(dore ase tina died)

ro

SECRET

PAGE THREE

WH COMMENT:

CITE DIRECTOR

(pics)

7

7

REQUESTED HQS TRACES SUBJ WHO ARRIVED DOM REP 22 AUG 72

FROM NEW YORK, PROHIBITED FROM ENTERING, AND RETURNED

NEW YORK SAME DAY.

CI/EXO_F.E. HUBBARD - IN DRAFT

singer see methin

C/ AHD

'" RELEASIS OFFICER

Nikke

WILLIANT

hillegian

C/WH/7

COÓRDINATING CETICERS

interr

Lechded from sateraat.

soungrading and

secret

REPRODUCTION SY OÏHER THAN THE RSUING OFFICE I5 PACHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATINO

OFFICER

- Capy No

Helene

---

## Page 6

14-00000

ITKIN.

hisi il

• (DATE)

RA NO.

IUG 34

101

REPLACES

PHICH MAY

bt

1-151

PRORITY

MAME CHECK REPORT - MPRC

ITKIN. Herbert

DANES, FROM RECORD

No ntelle Nome

DIATE AMO PLACE OE ANTI

Richmonl Hill, II, NY.

1738

485t.

Riklyn, NY -

(/47)

ARTITE DUTT

VINC

DATE ("roco 10)

RANOX

CANCER

14 Fex45- 26NCY46 12 230 674

10/46

ARTO

(45)

annulent

SECURITY CLEARANCES

187)

PULE MESSi INTRALLID

CATE CHECKEC

7 JUN 1971

CASE NO ANO CATEGORT

544867-Гр5-Н2К.

SIANICE

KANT

TIA DISONOREN

dor

NONE INDICATED

DATED

SECRET

TOP SECRET

CRTPTOCRNAT

COLAT MARITAL 5)

EMARKS - fare decasa de court martoata

1) Mather: BITKIN, Edythe

2) 6orl Cond. mal.

CONFLETED ON

S50S

ORE

Car st

ASTION

METY C-CFO

Fri sigil

---

## Page 7

14-VOOJU

Herbert ITKIN

Date and Place of Birth:

as Jamaica, L.I., New York).

Queens (also given

Description: 5'11". Brown hair. Brown eyes. (Photos in file).

Passports and Travel:

Ppt. B122634, issued 4 Jan. 1961. Renewed 11 Feb. 1964.

Ppt G097867, issued 14 Jan. 1966.

Was to depart NYC for UK, BOAC 506

o/a 14 Jan. '66. Had made 4 trips abroad in

earlier 12 months.

b, Was to depart ola 8 Jan, '61, UK &

Western Europe. Two weeks vacation.

Father: Arthur ITKIN.

Born

Russia (also given

as "Poland"',

18 May 1900). US citizen (by naturalization?

marriage?)

Last stipulated residence: 118 Front St., Dublin, Ga (?) .

Mother: Edith HAVES, born

US citizen by birth.

(also given as

Permanent Residences:

440 E. 79th St., NYC (Jan. 1966)

33 Greenwich Ave., NYC (Jan. 1964)

168 Rim Lane, Hicksville, New York (Jan. 1961)

Shelton Towers Hotel, Lexington Ave., NYC (Aug. 1966)

300 Madison Ave., NYC (Legal offices, 1965)..

---

## Page 8

14.00000 .

Mistiiai taiddispouse:

Adah'Itkin, born

Diana Kane, born

married 12 Dec, 1963

---

## Page 9

14-00000

LIPT OF STATE PASSFORT APPLICAFION

LATE: 14 JANUARY 1966

CLASSIFICATION: HONE GIVEN

SUBJECT:

REREERT ITKIN

---

## Page 10

14-00000

7220

this so one.

113

Not in

1/2441 7

1/30/41

2/141

2-2

-kel

---

## Page 11

14-00000

NO:

iFERINCE SLiP

ТАТЬВ

ST/EA=

ar1at6

ts.ti

1019101J

DATE

atvo ad, 1od.

:.FOPy

'AFPROVAL

AS RiGUESTÃO

COMME*:

FOR VESO LAFORMA: I0E

IMITiAL FCR CLEARANGE

MECESEADY ACTION

REHARKS CR ADDITIGHAL SOUTING

NiNOTE AND RETURR

L-jiae-=

¡RER CORCERSATION

LEREPARE OfPiAY

SEL HE

SIGBATLRE

Ou recorels endicute fpot.

+ 13122634 Issurl 1-4-61

VAOH IN 2NE

Trond

SIeNATUNE

PT/NY

I'Hheemisii

поох ню. пло к.ре.

рномЕ на.

•i"?"

l'" inre

aeay ceeee

fover

ARaallonarde rooerdae 972

.-spi

ZNSBA

medtoe dmope nlf miogldtroetio

pe éng il appeppo aeare dordeo deledtdoesoe

...au,ici . ir

"Po-dg

126.

---

## Page 12

14-00000

¡ATE,

LENCY

CENTER

ASO FI, IN AVENUE

EW YORK IN, NEW YORK

OFFICIAL DUSINE38

POSTAGE AND FEES PAID

U, D. DEPARTMENT OF STATE

PASSPORT OFPICE

NEW YOWK PASSPORT AGENCY

A GO FIFTH AVEN YE

': MEN YORK 20, N. Y

791N3)

Friend"

---

## Page 13

14.00000

then,

weit

durcau of Records and Statintice

Deparlment of Health

The City of Now York

CERTIFICATION OF BIRTH

Deshest Likin

Mall was born in the City of New York on.

ectording to Birth Fecord No.

-fled in the

Ofice of this Bureau on

00l31.926

In witness whereof, the seal of the Department

of Health of the City of Ngol York he been affed

hereto this y day of

— 196L

Then Prith

Direstor of Burrest

Borough Registrar

Weralags This certifcation la not valid ll it has been altered in ass

60104

May mbalooner or ll ll doco sot bear tão raled scal al

Rho Departmost of Health,

4l4-11511701108(89) colde

?:.

-Paradis inno

→2=

...:

.. ".:

---

## Page 14

14-00000,

By fat

* 8.

SO, IN!

N/18

490

SEER E T 232254Z AUG 72 STAFF

CITE SAGIO DOMINGO 13895

DIRECTOR.

WOMUSE EMPYREX

1. EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISÉS HERBERT TIMIN

AERIVED

SANTO DOMINGO ZZ AUG TE FROM NEW YORK PAA 25E PROKIEHIED

ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK SAME DAY

PAA 236. ITKIN BORN

RED YORK, US PP $ 1220178.

2. NO STATION TRACES. EMPYREX RECORDS INDICATE SUBJ

• BLACKLISTED EECAUSE HE ENSAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS

MASA CONNECTIONS, ACCRODIÑE SAME FILE, MY TIMES REPORTED

SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO SCROWN ON PERSONS IN DOMREP.

TRACES REQUESTED.

19DEX. FILE 281-

22-2-28/3= E2 IMPDEI WA-SISM.

SECREIT

694215

coord:

• done ti

* SECRET

---

## Page 15

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: 10040001)

FROM.

RID/SD / 7

1 D 17

TO:

(Officor despastias, room raber, cos

building)

2.

5.

DC/CI OffIce

11.

12.

13.

15.

610 Smas D

INTERTAL

USE ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CURRENT CABLE

но

SECRET

DATE

DATE

HOWARDED

OFFICERS

INETIALS

COMMENTS (Munter poch comment lo shaa has uton

Dron a tax deross column añor torto cocamont)

TO: ACTION ADDRESSEE

1. Cables forwarded berevith

bave not been integrated

Into the CS record system.

2.. If you feel they should

be classified into & CS

f1le, please Indicate file

nuuber (ant other necessary

processing) and returs to

RID/SD, Room 1 D 17, TURE:

• 8/ JUN 2970

12 JUN 1970

RETAIN:

CS File Number

INDEXING:

YES

NO.

(If jes, Indicate names.)

3. Il these cables do not

require processing into

tbe CS Records Systeng

please destroy.

TO 5: E/BC cable action turzed

bver tó Office of General Corsul with

PIRECTOR 035476, 19 May 70; w1th

following fros CI office

No file designation on

either outgoing.

Per telecon with DC/CI Secy forwarding

RID cable for proper disposition on

clardestine element. Particuiarly 10ro

that sheds sore unfavorable publiclty

toward Agency.

this ales

We bear

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

i2: You we havecACy

Мле,

"just file thee to the

ides file

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

лі 44, Селу+*»-

---

## Page 16

14-00000

011104

CLASSIFED MESSA L

SECHET

sui (r)

HERY

TOTAL COPES /4

[J.ES

CLAINTY TO ESELENO.

FOUL

30

C/EURS

€513

SHANICH

•11

LOND

SECRET 181745Z MAY 70 CITE LO:DON 1613 (LAUTERBACH ACTING)

DIPECTOR

RYBAT KEYWAY

iowm..00650€

KUSX

1. SOTH (SAUPROOT) EXPECTS CE ASKED BY RYE TO COMMENT

ON ACCURACY LOIDOW TELEGRAPH ARTISLE 16 KAY TO EFFECT THAT

MR. MERPERT ITKIN, AMERICAN LABOR LAWYEP, WAS ON JILANCE

SECET MISSION IN BRITAIN IN

1555. ARTICLE SAYS SLAVCE

HAS FORMALLY ACHNONLEDSED IN PAPER SUBKITTED TO NEW

YOF.K

SUPREME COLET THAT ITKIN WORKED AS AN AGENT IN BRITAIN AND

THAT THIS ONLY SECOND TIME JHLANCE MAS PUBLICLY ACKNOLLEDGED

THE ASSIGNMENT OF AN UNDERCOVER AGENT NOT OFFICIALLY ON

JILANCE PAYROLL (POWERS WAS FIRST).

20 ACCORDING LOCAL LNERCO, IT ACTUALLY HANDLED

ITKIN

IN LONDON AS INFORMANT ON CRIMINAL MATTERS IN 1965.

JAGUAR AYARE OF THIS. HOWEVER, LOCAL LNERGO AS CONFUSED

• AS WE ARE AS TO ITKIN'S JILANCE CO!INECTION AT THAT TIME.

" 3.

4.

5..

REQUEST HQS ADVISE WHAT WE MAY TELL SMOTH.

NO STATION RECORD ITKIN®

FILE DEFER.

18 Mayrd

GP-1

CS COPY

SE

C R

101

in ear cen

- 4.-

---

## Page 17

14-00000

TO

SENCER I ILL CHECK CLASSIGRESTION TOP AND SOTTOM

LACI ASS/FIED

CONFIDENTIAL " • SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING, SLIP

MAME ANO ADDRESS

Mr.

Holmes

CIREA

DATE

INITIALS

→ si piece

gour estinte

pria vedicali 16

AC110H

DIRECT REPLY

APPROYAL

DISPATCH

FILE

CONCURRERCE

INFORMATION

Li inghirel

respire

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMEMDATION

RETURN

SIGRATORE

Remarkes

ove is trishcondy on the

Seen by John Greaney and John

Warner.

Neither has any problems

with it.

questa tee t's turber

not chein, ligts woud coclione imy questions

by cabie

FOLD MERE TO RETURN 70 SENDER

FROM: MAME. ADORERO ANO PHONE NO

DATE

OGC

UNCLASSIFIED

тоям

- 5ª 237

tiso previous editicos

2/13/69

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

GPO: 19680-297-587

(40)

9920, 49-5

---

## Page 18

роем

53

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

M7G. 1.66

DISPATCH

Пікам

Coot of Station, San Salvador

IT*.

Chief, Wis Divisios

FR21

Chief, WOWUSE

SUBACT

laterview of Mr. Luis E. GUTiERREZ

RETICE REQUIRED - PITRINLES

Seo paragraph 1 below.

NO COUTINE MALAID

OFANES CI

I CAN RETA REASO

1. Your assistance is requested in interviewing the Salvadortan citizen,

Inis E, GUTIERREZ, for information which touid be helpful to thle Goverament

In determining the accuracy of certain claims made contdeatially by

Herbert I ITKIN. M5. ITKIN is a prime witness la legal proceedinga presently

underway in Now York Cit; involving the Masa and related underworld orgarita-

Mons. ITKIN lives under the protection of U.S. Federal Marshale.

2. The following data is for your information. It sboald not be used in

dealing with GUTIERREZ oF outside of this Organization ITKIN has been an

FBI Informant since March 1963.

Ho has now clalmed to have worked for this

Organization daring the period 1954/55 to 1960. ITKIN assorts that his contact

during these yeare was one Philip HARBIN. This inquiry is concerned solely

with ITKIN's claimed relationukip with this Organisation from 1954155 to 1960

when he alleges HARBIN vas his contact. As will be seez, GUTIERREZ, ITKIN

alleges, also know HARBIN during that time and that fact, therefore, lo

material to tho credibility of ITIIN's story.

ITIN's first contect with Phillp HARBIN was in 1955 when ho claimo 8o

have been contacted purenant to a meeting be, ITKIN, had in Philadeiphia with

a leading personality of this Organization and another high-goverument official

late in 1954 or early 1955. According to ITKIN, HARBIN sever made she

speclic claim of being from this Organization but that was ITHIN's asaumption.

ITION describes HARBIN as about 42 or 43 (is 1955), An Americas.

He had receding hair, combed back but parted. He was about 5'g" in height,

Attachments:

As stated (2 copies)

Orig & 1 - 005, San Salvador

EIT

CROSS RETRESEE TO

DEPRICK STHBOL AND BUMBER

DATE

HISST -2742

CLASSETCATION

14 February 1969

HOS FELL SLANDER

SECRET/RYBAT

201-836808

ORIGIMATING

CFAICE

OFKER

ПРЯД

C1/R&A

R. B. Holmes

EXT.

7468

Dist:

COORDIMATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

2 - COS, Salvador w/a

I - WH/2/ES&HD w/o

1 - CI/R&A w/a

1-201-836808 w/a

WH/2/ES&HD

1453%

C/WH/2

DATE

11559

1001

FELEASING

FILES NGRATURE

+ 492

---

## Page 19

14-00000

well-built with little evidence of fat. He always wore a vest. He spoke fluent

Spasich and could bave been of Polish or Russiar family background. Is RBIN

always drank tea, sever collec, he appeared ailuent with a professorial air

about him.

Following an initial messiao, ITHIN alleg=s that ta as innati inci

periodically in New York City. ITKIN alleges that he passed to HARBIN copies

of the correspondence developed by his law firm, Delson, Levin and Gordon,

dealing with Indonesia, Burma, and India. ITKIN left that law firm in mid- 1957.

presurably thereby losing total access.

Among the materials ITKIN clains he

passed to HARBIN before he left the Delson, Levin and Gordon firm was informa-

tion he picked up from = fried who worked at the United Nations for the

Government of El Salvador. Thie friend was Luis E. GUTIERREZ (see biographic

sketch, Attachment A). ITKIN claims that he became very friendly with

GUTIERREZ, who was studying either at New York University or Columbia

where he prepared a master's thesis on El Salvador's economic position.

HARBIN, he says, was interested in the topic and lIKIN alleges he furnished

HARBIN sotes of GUTIERREZ' monograph.

Sometime presumably after mid-year 1957, HARBIN asked ITKIN i1 he

knew anybody else who could do (intelligence) work. ITKIN recalled CUTIERREZ,

who meanwhile had moved to the position as Consul General of El Salvador in.

New Orleans, Louisiana. HARBIN--ITKIN Bays--accepted the suggestion and

ITKIN provided an introduction for HARBIN by letter, which be sent to GUTIERREZ

in New Orleans, ITKIN asserts that HARBIN- -according to his.own statement-

went to New Orleans and made the "new contact". ITKIN claims he last saw

HARBIN in 1960.

3. A comparison between the key paints of ITKIN'a account as surmarized

in the irmediately preceding paragraph with the data set out in Attachment A and

E will show immediate contradictions that tend to destroy any credibility in

ITKIN's account, particularly with respect to his relationship to GUTIERREZ.

We also point out, solely for your information, that we have found so confirma- ::

tion in our records of any relationship between this Organization and ITKIN during.

the period 1954-1960, No traces have been found in our records or anywhere in

government thus far of a Philip HARBIN, and there is explicit denial that there was

any meeting in Philadelphia in 1951 between ITIIN and the high officials he

nominates. Finally, there is no substantiation in our files of any of the intelli-

gence product which ITKIN allegedly passed to HARBIN. This case, however, is

of such a nature that we must strive, if possible, to have GUTIERREZ' ONA

statement for the record.

We leave to the Station determination of the best manner to approach

GUTIERREZ. It is our preference that a Station officer, under suitable cover.

perform the interview, but it may well be that a consular or embassy ulficer

might be the best person to do the job. H'e repeat that we are concerned in this

matter solely with the verification or denial of ITKIN's statements, specifically

the allegation that be introduced HARBIN to GUTIERRE'Z in New Orleans and

that as a consequence GUTIERREZ would be in a position to identify and describe

HARBIN in a way that would permit us to locate bim if be exists.

The request

for GUTIERREZ' assistance in this matter is in no way predicated upon hostility

towards ITKIN nor is there any predisposition against his claims if indeed

evidence is found to back them up. If GUTIERREZ indicates that he is willing to

provide whatever information he can, you can assure him that his information is

solely for U.S. Government use and will not be made public by us at any time

without his expressed consent. Also, it is clear that we are prepared to accept

his decision to give no assistance in the matter.

1d0s

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITON.

CLASSIEICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

*CONTINUID

PAGE NQ

2

---

## Page 20

14-00000

115516-2742

5. We have compiled a shurt statement that might be used by the interviewer

to explain to GUTIERREZ. the purpose of the interview. (see Attachment B). A list

of questions, which sbould be given orally, is elaborated in Attachment C. You

will note that these queitione concern the larger as well as narrower clements.

of GUTIERREZ' relations with ITKIN. WA are wiling en settlo for a specifie

answer to the narrower question o1 thilip HAAllN in preference to generalizations

about the whole relationship. Il, as a consequence of your handling, GUTIERREZ

is willing to talk in depta, we will be grateíul.

6. Attachment Disa copy of a New York Times article concerning ITKIN and

one of the completed federal'cases in New York City. This item is attached for

your background reading. This may be shown to GUTIERREZ., of course.

Attachment & is a copy of a letter dated 26 February 1965 from GUTIERREZ to

ITKIN. Again, the content of this letter tends to support the theory that iTKIN'!

story, as elaborated in paragraph 2 above, is a fabrication. While possibly based

os a real relationship, it appears to be a fabrication wita respect to chronology

and with respect to the exact mutual interests involved.. Also included in this

attachment is ITKIN's answer to the letter. We feel in retrospect that

GUTIERREZ might be unhappy to read his own letter in the course of a consular

interview.

We, therefore, suggest that this not be shown to him. However,

there is no objection to an indication that the U.S. Government is aware that

GUTtERROL was in perfectly correct correspondence with ITKIN during 1965 on

business mattors.

7. We would appreciate compliance at your earliest convenience and a pre-

liminary indication by cable of GUTIERREZ' response, if one is fortheoming, on

the questions concerning GUTIERREZ' knowledge of HARBIN. If there is anything

unclear ta this dispatch, Headquarters would valcome any questions by cable.

All correspondence should be addressed Chief, WOMUSE, via Chief, WH.

James R. Rumsey

5gf the

8-64

801

53a

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

CONTINUED

PAGENQ

3

•na lazest series

---

## Page 21

14-00000

SECRET/RIBAT

Attacament A to HSST - 2742

GUTIERREZ, Lula FnerIquo

Born la San Salvador; El Salvador, on 15 July 1916; son of Luis and Concepeion

G.; B. Commerce from Sir Georgo Willlame Ualversity, 1948; M.A. from New York

University, 1951; Ph.D, in Economies, University of Saa Salvador, 1959; married

Lydia DIAZ on 21 September 1940; one daughter, Maria Marta; vico consul of.

El Salvador in Montreal, 1944-1919; consul in Now York City, 1919-1952; consul

general, New Orleane, 1952-1958 (30 December 1952-3 April 1958)*; supt. banke

asd corporationa, El Salvador, 1958-1961; gederal manager invereioncs commerciales,

196% - present; professor of economies, Univereity of El Salvador, 1958 - present;

commissioner, City of Sas Salvador, 1964 - present; served to first lieutenant.

Salvadoriaa Army, 1933 - 1939; member of Ansericas Economiate Association,

Association of Salvadorian Economists; bome: 83 avenida Norto 619s office: Apuitado

Postal 1144, San Salvados, El Salvador.

Who's Who In Commerce end Industry, 1968-1969, page 558.

Forolga Consular Officad in United Stater, 1954 throagà 195%.

'e..

...?. к.".

.... - wit

HIM TA17 1779407915

---

## Page 22

14-00000

SECRF.T/RYBAT

Attachment B to HSSE - 2742

Suggested Statement to GUTIERREZ

I undorstand you bave a frond named Herbert ITKIN, a latryss, now living

to New York. Mr. ITKIN le under the protoction of Unitod States autboritios

because ho la the prime witsess in very significant logal cases presently pending

before the Federal court in New York City, Mr. ITKIN, la private testimony to

U.8, authortties, has Indicated that you were a friend of his; he met you in

New York whilo you were at the United Nations, He has also indicated that sometime

1a 1957 he sent a lottor of latroduction to you in New Orleass, presentiag one

PhUllp HARBIN whom ITIN elaina did go to New Orleano and Introduced bimeeli

to you, Your ansHare to questions relating to the above would be of great help to

the U,S. Goverament in determining the verzelty of ITTIN's atataments.

SECRET /RYBAT

Hisalt +7445510-7772

- 260-936809

---

## Page 23

14-00000

SECRET/RYBAT

Attachment C to HSSW-2742

Questions to be preseated orally to Luis E. GUFTERRE.Z

Would you describe the circumstances leadlag to your introduction to

Mr. Herbert ITKIN and the nature of your contacts with Mr. ITKIN? When did

you firat meer Mr. ITKIN?. Where were you working at the time? What was

your position?

What school of university were you attending at the time? For what degree

were you preparing? In what subject? What subject did you use for your thesis?

Did you show it to ITKIN and /or did you give him a copy?

Did you conticue to maintain contact with him after your departure from

vew York? Do you still maintain correspondence with tim! whey did you daat

have contact with Mr. ITKIN?

In 1957 or 1958 did you recolve a letter from ME. ITKIN introduclag a

Philip HARDIN?

Did a man named Pallip HARBIN come to New Orleans and introduce bimool!

to you? Did ho have a Istter of introduction frous Me. ITHIN? (How did ho

represent himself, l.e.. whom did he represent?) Would you describe Philip

HARBIN? Would you describo your firat meesing with Philip HARBIN? What

subjocts were covored? How long were contacks maintained? Wher were thay

tarminated? For what reasan?

SECRET/RYBAT

till: + 201-836868

---

## Page 24

14-00000

A tachment E to HSS W-2742

Arable pinói illa desis

MAN MALVADOR.

TO 1LA10A51031 eh A.

Fobruary 26, 1905.

Doar Herby:

It sas a soul jood suprico to receive your letter of

Pebruary 15, 1905. I sad voittor you trico 'r to

inst threo years,

and I had no

aneros. I wort to low Yori to too Cal.d. Convention

but 1 round

you notroro.

and novad

realizod

Now York

to anover placo. sit unat a rodidI nonI! YOu st12I aro

In to Empira Stato kicking around and minising about your oid

frionás.

Às you probably resembor so io zot sèo each othor since

1952. Lot 1.0

sius you a rough bralfine on seat happens during this

timo. In Novanbos 1952 I lus appointod Consul Goneral of El Salvados

it dow Orloana; in 1958 I rosignod und care back to sy country and

ras appolriod Comparatos

of the Barie

Inspecting Jureau; then In

1960 & Has anjointed Gonoral Discotor of to Social Socurity Euroaul.

ti:or.

in 19ô1 I roved to privata hissiness as Genoral tarager of

Sara, a small Insuranco compriy. Among some

central saris and el zolossor of acorones

Ird Busiross saragemont

at tho School of Enginooring of the Unlversity of El Salvador.

Althouga, as you cas soo,

time

I an is the High Brass catagory

te lor

incumo

brackot group. For

that

boon lookint tor a moro

but so lar I

havo found nothing. tat 1o nor I tould say you aro just on tha

offoring no to do soro businoss with joù. I hopo yoù u1ll write and

toll no mora about that you reto 1n mind. diso I vial ba valting for

you in april or any otor time; ine sooner sco better.

Thero 1s somothing also I must toll you. I vant to go

back to New York and !

order to work in tha Statos

hood your help voor sadly. You now that 1n

Pare s rosidont visa and to

obtainod such visa ono must hare an affidar!: fros an Anorican C1t1-

zon. could you bo so sina giving no

such a bolp? I hope you 11l say

YES.

üita bost rogards, I am

Sincoraly yours,

sirate:

H/W all i 5 t HSSH -2772

. ES COPY

4: 30-836808

---

## Page 25

14-00000

sris price

14th 7100%

12rch 2, 1965

Do. IU13 E. Cut10880z

APDO,

POSTAL 1144

San Salvador, Contral MC∞Ca

DO22 Lujas

I l1al plan to

sco you in spill and ians lot

you ¡noir a fcir decic bafosa.

I an sure that ve v111 bo able to vork out

something torethor that 11ll to to our sutual benefft

1n gotting you back to decrica.

sincerely yourse

Herbert Itkn

HI:gto

and wants

....

--...

6116.97

---

## Page 26

14-00000

THE RED DONG TAKE SARDSDAY, MARCH 2.1893

Ü.S. Officials Say likin Was an Agent, Reporting to F.B.I.

WHO LIPAD R.B.Iy

U.S. ORIOLALS SAY

Figure la Marcus Case Said

i Have Piskia Lide so

licinere did to ase có six per-

eras treached

in

hit disscus

kick-inica storini, las onta de.

scribed up federal albricis as

an undricover arial lio

Eltralce Bic word nd orgaaized..

hire

va Nre Federal itercas of lor.

restigation.

bir, Ilhal, sore undes i4!

sour aroncé suard isy Federai

¡naisiais, is 10 le lie Goner.

compisucy cuse. lis is a con:

licientine

tien

former.

"Water Corribsurde James La

Merry Findo Caser. of a diewi

York

cacipany i

Daniel J. $ºui10 a inaun icader,

and Craries

8472270r1

Me. Main-cailed une o: live,

dormers la decora years-as de

¿crover

Far.

iniorinion

the

winic

he

engaged

ir.;

sures around ine tarld

There is so siir information

insaner.

l'owerer.

ast - high

Federal dificial tas caiica lie,

1і-учаr-ом

a "strange" suas oio riskedi

sas lie to

"siand up

to

initial in Dies Cises

disciosed

• Corersment

darze

Skat

= suites criminai cases apart

Liceã lice Diarcus dimir.

it'-lises are sid to is

s''ne laires racaclotrai sam.

turiza inatiny, inclusion era;

Ju in dirt a Whoit Tange d' Gliste

cries al lne cily, state and

sadi dintensinis

I story el dir. disin's de.

suerther by Tist

York

Taaies-30d

CHATHAN D

Gurernascot do.

exicieNt

disia siné a searche dó plesse

jin'

and

suits in New lark, Wasting.

lie Caribean aná and

sona with his aclisives as

di amiercover agend, dir. liain

(CicalaTall bUSINCES VELLUICI,

soñot ul lis larvircascis

"is associalans and dusress

dinner gleast bease indieate

eu joy the available decuincaus

in iid isbout him - Mow lit

is ssroirement was not caiy.

aà diaíia figures hide Coralio

-...

Lila, but with policia as in

L.: Tracilsuan Resuise, coup.

Libitarica in disari, union

-G-esis ir. New Yoi'k and De.

Lie in ard samsiers in Loadon

H141241014

are

aircady

pricocdinz on lie casis of un-

=i:

?.:

---

## Page 27

14-00000

Conner.

2.2: 8, Cala 1,

perisco açor diminis

ai; injir.

55..:

1.7.=.

seriar martini

528 a jan 6l tia.

Generamone

despite

iny sor eeti of an emergercy

ricuntract anardcs without Doe

Deferment

cf

Suppit, Gas and Isco

¿aiy donió ue jard as a kick.

hirtin

miricias

fact."

sciel idio

timing

D21 1:

do

distin.

Concern

OSL*

tas

high

itoroli

Guitramed

Sir here

likin's

are

5. not

Ml Hans,

Xт. I:

Rancis

wartion

or he

Waern41

sir.

starts soldly

Linide

12.10ь Ин dA

tina titan

dreadfication Duo Sunn

Assisiano Unied Siates

irdacy isabert i

oranic

ile nnuld ioraliy

grin de

sine

•10n 11le 11,441

incleter in

dr diclmens

Callcé a last Tainto

(linioadic. L

Kie mont adies

sias an pias obtained by linited Seas

A-OWE AltorneY

boss

o Costra: sir. ilsin were arrested for te

int lili escord late ca

MALIN94

Thy wire charged with has

acropird a $10.000 broe

EniE.

Lat:385. Marcus's departmene

Scarcity di Documcals

There

very

him

itkid'

even stil

oniy

mysieTy

serves

SUSTOUTG

16. 8963, Рог E5.

himseif

no holdete

ithe naires oi

in

FaSe. Diarilla do adi as

dion, mias as a frerd.

arss parlier dial is se

---

## Page 28

14-00000|

tie to

1712-2

Sliaide

aid.

proniacial.

suited tale jour

the runny's daries

coat

Dacintos,

Learn

denies

¿a

1185.6229

coaliy.

ita

trand

1901 or cariy

id's

"a liditian

separat

LAMIA CAT

nitro

Ropati

Miari aro ic

get as intancing

neт5.0n luna

scamsiera

in a

ire

TOLd ME.

Santo

win aunt

trar

discles al airin.

81 siuli

kain ta!

water tracint.

can crucily wines

liked in de!

Gise

was he wiened a bite catince

behind sis desi di1 1

tricpisdin

2ndl

scursey business"

anu aises

The offit's con' rm that Dar.

Crostio

10nd0a2a1y di Lin vasted

LinE

Cario 10

The

Coraio's

war iant it

His.

ні" слим

he

is compiarly

any shatterin

beincen sir.

Wesirers

artistart

rosis code, sire be mirela

1.07 1001 Mi

Westrade,

Lated Su'ch

allane

hare

remember

harr

Detentias

sid.

was airs in

foreign

Provisiona

GoverT.nca:

Sar

15) can't

in a miran.

norind

immoratriy don"

iren

as this

andretrie

banairs

¡rarin or in jure raverissert ol

Rapuleir

ra?

¡laition Torring."

reiiinzahin loveirn Mr. Iikin

and dir

liciano

w.11

last that inseau di foiling hus

reiziner.

Mr.

1.41s.

ont Nir. Irjai $i5.606 for un.

Mr.;

nica: Repuhic, asd tas aclySi

in ose abortive alete in i903

---

## Page 29

Mind merised

, apraa, per priories. co,

CONSICENTIAL

22098

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Newspaper rgicle on Herbert Itkin

On 22 October 1969, the attached article fron the 15

October 1968 edition

of the lew Yorl Daily lens

concerning Janes

Marcus and llerbert Itkin was shown in a low key to "r. Edward

6177! Country birector AM/CAR, hy are Paul le

Hir. long expresscd no interst in the article.

N11/7/ilt

CONZICENTIAL

-=:

---

## Page 30

14.00000

ip cracont

Merees Sosionaing Pu: 913

ole cenodoi

rt.m. d!.

18'"r:

Cai:=

722222320

Diseni

..1..

jeprrae dinni ti iriid

jenrcind tibdiy ari édo iior, i.

cb.he.

saiccridi di prici-

Hove:

Get.anm

leda..t

aad,to.

ilito

П......

Sririrtio..a

!:

"ria

cait tro milgeee di

icha's

iäaiceed

cOxT..

énil.tin

ile ti.s

iii"

ilá-ia.

2042

•492 2er

inyo eit ee iod

--=-=70-374

io; ter

'tr,"

as. e eumia urra.

---

## Page 31

14-00000

Nots:

tent

Fi!'

Reminder: do

yor Oliver this or does lariood Long it?

(He prefers the Jatter.)

JH

Long

it

13,0.0

X-5s

ad areal

Eras a se

---

## Page 32

14-00000

SECRET

MENORANDUS FOR

SUBJECT

:

Chief, WH/FI

Herbert Itkin /..s.r

There has been no Agency contact with ITKIN. Ray

ROCCA, C/CI/R&A stated that CI Staff definitely never was

in contact with hin.

Ray ROCCA 'S

source of info on the DEJOIE-

Max BOLTE-ITKIN & Company, activities was Nax BOLTE and not

ITXIN.

proved negative,

Offices checked for possible contact, all of which

CI/R & A.

On 13 May 1963 ITKIN reported to DIA in San

Juan

of his meeting with DEJOIE, BOLTE, FIGNOLE and

LuC STEPHEN in their formation of the Provisional Haitian

Government in Exile formed in San Juan on 12 Hay. & that

ITKIN had been hired by that group as its Attorney.

10 June 1963 ITKIN registered with the Dapartment of State

as a Foreign Agent for this group adding that he made a

personal loan to DEJOIE of $15,000.

4.

A 22 May 1963 Memorandum of Conversation from the

Department of State sets forth the results of an informal

meeting (possibly held on 28 April 1963) attended by Forrest

E. ABBUHL (Officer in Charge, Haitian Affairs, State ARA/CRA),

DEJOIE, BOLTE, a (fnu) BRODIE, and ITKIN, in which DEJOIE

expressed his

political views, asked for U.S. support for

an invasion of Haiti, U.S. recognition of the Provisional

Government in Exile, etc.

5.

Appropriate documents substantiating above are

herewith attached.

C/AH/7/CI

19 July 1968

Beat. a

То-достат

---

## Page 33

14-00000

18-14-9u4,1968

1:1)2/c/

Need ITKiN (2u- )

fruit, has chided pi; hame out being times

Konate Catal franca (1000) (Suana)

No contact al

Des, fu,566 it's (fran,).....

kepublican.folticean@alese.to/tugh

Ged for CIA. Des. pags that for years ith I ha

Amnestie Opuateria

No. read of any costent.

CA/4. Lolan -

-Chang

No second ofang costch. taunts, pince info in devor ple

cil if as of t wet over present swill id ise Moly 22

fog fang possible Consentin fIT in quite 015.

CA/3

No record of any costet bite I TRe

win.

---

## Page 34

14-00000

Interh

Insenstact

that

sald that sub ject bas

ance

registeres

353

Fordlin

agen:

s1/7/l!8 cheched

itate

in

tui"

checked with dr, Lanvin

Registralien

Secizon

of Justice who said

there

15

no

record

of

is cico

navins

bean s

Wu: laer

registered

agent.

In lar

regIStereC

representalive

the Dejoie-tignole

provasional

government

in

exile

and

iias

have

bren paid

$30,000

she?

inss soternient cook poiei.

io further

inio.

: 99

"carini.

1113

1ian

1?33.

rimatitola, 100 liroria,

inge

10 570, 79"

In itin

I:x1r.

Indiet

".C!

"..I.:

te:t

tre de 197.90.

SO

*1:4:

fieri

da!"

„""55?!

aiutard

"istat".

.. =

& da: 5a

'iro

plare :?.

-i°"

nit

not

per.

egurce

irto.

nico tarreliad

1-1,1 01€

abat

sanfece soprared in the lew tork lines

et:

13 Jazuary. 194P.

nescrited as

emperi s'ary seller,

last nover and ineeler.

Artiche filer Inir9-it.

ifre artor

SEO ADAR, PURTRO RICO, UNA DATIONE DAN"

477FJ 209 t6S A7590,

0. 1823021

possono 1) Oracon ot luss, E. E.

12 00 20

stato

03d175

cilitA

211.536818

2=:-

---

## Page 35

14-00000

"HE NEW YORK TILES, FRIDAY, JULY 19, ISSE

Leas, 6 LINKED TO ITKIN IF

INDICTED BY U.S.

N.Y. Jury Indicts!

6 in Marcus

Nichback Case

NEW YORK, July 18 (UPI):

- A Federal

grezd jury

• dicted today six allezed asso.

ciales of attorney Hertert 11:!

kin, key figure in der sTarcusi

kickback case. on

saarges of!

another

kickback

содірігасуі

Invol sing

mortgage

applica-l

tioles made to the

Teamsters'

Union pension lund

U.S.

Atty.

Robert Morgen-

thau identified in'o de the de-

fendants,

Salvatore

45, i and

Granello,

Janes

Piumeri.

65.

both of Yew York, as members

of the Safia.

Their codefend-

ants

were Darid Teazer, 57,

37,

Great Neck, N.Y.; Joha Kell:

Oyster Bay

Comer.

and Hyman Lewise, 38, of

Coral Gables.

Fla.,

ded Leon.

ard Musso, 45,

N.Y.

of Larchmont,:

Itkin was not Indieted bit

was Inamed in

each of four

overt acle ciled is tiz todier

ment

ser it's.

27372

Accused of Kickback Piot'Fr

Involving Teamster Fused

14.5

tn

By MARIN TOLCHIN

Six men linked to Herni

I:tin

the key

normant in the James Plannus i

kickback

case

were

dicted yesterday by a Festraina

grand Jury in an allegro kak-in

back

conspiracy

involving a, 131

reamster union pension furt

Itkin

was not

indicted turio

was named in most of the exeriff

acts

charged in

we

indictestil

and he

tying

appeared 1o be the 21-!

figure in

the conspiray! a

Jekin, who was an intorate!

for

the

Central

Interizence! st

Agency and the Federal Bureau, A

of

Investigation,

testified

Federal Court that be had said a

off teamster officiais Bod CrEa

nals to arrange loans from Lie!

fund on

behalf of individuals

and corporators.

Itkin

did not name the per.

sons who allegedty recerved the

payoffs.

However,

officials

indicated

privatly 12

that the Indictment-and Liare

previous indictments rotagu

reamster pension funds - kadi

resulted from Itkin's intora-?

tront.

Constraction invatred

Yesterday's

Indictrenty

charged that the six men bad

participated in a scheme

to Eet!

a $1,350.000 mortgage for Bizi

Value

Discount

Department;

Stores,

Inc,

0f 24

Hiest

259h;

Street,

for the

constructios of

threa discount

centers in

pano Beach,

Cocos and Fort,

Lauderdale, Fla.

Robert

United

M.

States

Attorney.

bat the men had obtained

tentative

Pension

tional

siers,

based in

Morgenthau

added.

that the loan never was made

This was the fourth tadicti

ment

Involving

the

pensica

fund since May. Thres of the

281-536808

—.....2. ".81.*x%

---

## Page 36

14-00000

• UNCLASSIFIED

INTER'

•USE G..

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

CONFIDEN IL

L

SECRET

SUBJECT: ¡Opsionoi)

FROM:

_/ LIbrant/br

DCS/Cperational Support Stais

10; Officer desigration, ruom rumker, and

buridgel

1.

clie

DATE

MIKERS

NO

DATE

12 lacch 148

OMALlIS (Numbor eose comment lo stom deces mic

to metrora.

rom o lina excas silura otto durt etmaeni

FOEWADORO!

ccs/Furding

Mr. Erich

Isenstead 3 1i4d, 1033

2.

3.

Attached

18

copy of the

letter our lew York office

sent to Kune 1c anguer to h18

inquiry re ITti.

13 Mar? 1 cs:

DC/WH

Goodwin

=216

Te il esis

21125

1.7.20973

---

## Page 37

14-V0JUU

P.0. E0x 1254

Grusad Contral Gtation

new tork 27, lew York

Fobruary 18, 2866

Mr. E. Kent Kano

R. D. 11

Kune, Ponnaÿlvanie

Dear Me. Kone:

Whilo in lew York on Februnry 15, 1900 on your var tu

Florida, you phoned no to inquire about a Nor York attornoy.

You will recall thut I proniord to saio done anguirico and

cumunicato the rouulto to you.

Pleasa bo adviied that tro

conticaon in queation lu not affillated or counocted with my

colleaguos or pyoelf.

I rogrot I via unable to convoy thie information to you

prior to your doparture sro ilos sort.

Vary sincoroly yours,

Ho te Fround

Wirreundingo

other tin

---

## Page 38

14-00000

UNCLASSIFIED

INTER

USE OuLY

CONFIDEM..AL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEST

Inuiry concernint the comictiln of norbert itian, des tori. lotter

Lillian 1. liral/ji

Si no hey Banan

10:

¡onces despralian, room neraber, cras

bunderag)

NO.

DATE -.

× 3037

DATE

SHFICER'S

COMMENTS Nunker ouch corneral la sher leom wiser

mateun.

Urom a lino across sulumn attor ood commerd. l

RICINID

CONWISLID

1.

Cliftanding

CHANNE

3.

Per our conversation, attached

in cany al ou file recono de:

ar. tierbere delin.

This office has no record of direc

cuntet with Ithin at any tine.

5.

I e162U32

MAR iStS

loofy to Ma, Googwen

. ".

1...

---

## Page 39

14-00000

'ois is

CONFIDENTIAL

il 10-65

15 Febriar 1966

Co intenis

Ingory Conseradig OLi Guanaction o2 16

*BE!

Penalista, Moral Pausara Caficor (291 193147), a

feruylica galiticion tia ture tão picourt Gayerasi cod

Ithin allecidly claimd ties d hal bisa of casaliarebie

cocistoree to oll 19 imita ani Chrculeso, Tho Iglicatioa

veo that is tai e traica Chi librat os agent, Dos a

Itali @10y50.

Ho diro lue cOntecicà Las OsElcO dai duo sIncísle Leassza:

hia 11soulal colleculom, Lied tental cguilioria.

Tuits il there tiero soy caostanco do indis cier.

13 anoter tay, lan lu bienano to the sars aaraca agniast

•Hig 202una son-1-Jai, Lail de banto to dicprove me latter's

CIRÍN dÙ GODO CIA CiTILiELiOL DE INCiEZ befOLO procoed ing

El 150 Eotel Drale, La durs Ciùs, priDa to lilo dejerture fos

---

## Page 40

14-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

87 204-65

15 FibRINTS ISEG

Fa thout teriass this artice could clear ly bio

IsalCa.

seccatly, Iiin lined dare fica lis Yorit cid

no "atilliy" ai são ditirully confianed Itin's const

's cidadaca diat 1i vould take soca tino to rava:

saula cariany la.

duch a sonly could do sulie canic

1n Menington sacher than in les foro la. Kano dia nos

Jes Do Ino Tucrea

CONFIDENTIAL

---

## Page 41

14-00000

''crsso

in 7os 005--

aPii oyu ro tias et.

1-819 #O :1RS DA.

Mid dred

arr i oogte

=9r02

O de.

302LEZ. KESSACS

SECRET

808:110

26

S37:68

EWAINE ETS UNN

VR, C/2NA 6, 5/21

0000 0

1DEDT /lNE iR

2923247 FE3 68

CITE JHNAVE 1569

RETADEÁTIR *E26

T10]

DIPEOTOR

irS*I

JMOCEAN

RET: UINAVE 1464 (, NG1IO3)

1Ha5ü61161.

•. ...

.*.

s30.

ate ale ee di

...'.

ECRET

nncmin miii

ipiisnn wiaa

.Ladlis.

di nhLrena ire

---

## Page 42

14-V00U0

SCRAN

SECRST

ilie tre aii

/dedoi tsy

100724

= :.

P30 Wwg

•Los oaafederedatoe moonnet

"aan:

indiraoda

, junoniin.

,..:. .

---

## Page 43

14-00000

PACRIT

."

PAGE THREE JOGAVE LAGE SEGRET

SECRET.."

---

## Page 44

14-00000

i de edi, dna dindin andedoe d

SECRST

FAGE FOUR UNHAVE 14G9 SECRET

SECRET

MAMNA

aiai.

Pt hi4"

wiigaitee

ttaitina"

Taa,utt 1e

i'"i"

-iG35y

---

## Page 45

14-0000U

SECRET

PAGE FIVE JIRàAVE 1469 EEGRET

SECRET

SECRET

-81900.000.1

---

## Page 46

14-00000

DEPT OF STATE DOCUMENT

OFFICE OF TIE CHIEF OF

PROTOCOL

LATE: 30 JUNE 1966

CLASSIFICATIO!: NONE GITFi

SUBJECT:

PRESIDENTIAL DETECATION TO THE

INAUGURAL CEREVONIES AT SANTO DOMINGO, D.P.

"st, it".

---

## Page 47

14-00000

DEPARTVONT OF JUSTICE DOCULENT

REGISTRATIO" STATEENT (REGIS. NO:

177

NAME OF REIGSTPANT:

JEAN ANTORE MAY SOLTE, AKA

MAX FOLTE

DATE: NOT LEGIELE

CLASSIFICATION: TONE GIVEN

---

## Page 48

14-00000

FBI DOCIENT

DATE: 4 AUGUST 1964

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SURJECT: TOUIS DEJOIE

FBI FILE NO: 105-31651 (NEN YORK)

---

## Page 49

14-00000

FIOIA

ACTIONS

INFO

C

.Y

.11! 14

rie 1.=

2ind

-di'da

Зі

SECRET

1 DIRECTOR

201-2404831

SiAivE

VH 8

ROSTIT;

DSP, SCO 6, CA 2, CA/O 4, F1, FI/INT-2, IA/SA 8, VRDA.

NDitTS

SECRET

Q32183Z

DIR INFO PRIN CITE NAVE 8792

Clits

P2/I

DYVOUR PBRUSEN

REF: VAVE 8541 (IN 15961) 41444

ROUTINS

16

d.eit

ciived.74

Di DESr.

MÜn6m20519

Y

"rins

Zuoake?

inmaia

1 36-124-2513

roed r389

E TENOWCHOL SPOKE ISETER ENO ONCE E N0 EE

RI COPY 1

Andesatix

1391 ..

Casv Na

cxgeiesccfonfe

17:-836565

---

## Page 50

14-00000

: «'

UCANBER-6, 25 JUNE.)

ll aDle uil anam aedo dox e Meeoro, n n0.

ia Te8l, 20 guis

imdiarase ictiaatis ai

•-es ф+ . 1

"SECRET

Targiei!

---

## Page 51

14-00000

"**+

-CLASSREO MESSACE.

SECRET

SECRET

UOA>

...,....

_SECRET_

ras;

---

## Page 52

14-00001

'tr" in gei te dno, dei ne, id

FRI DOSTENT

DATE: 19 FFSREARY 1964

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: JEAN ALTTOINE NAX SOLTE

FBI FILE NO: 97-1576 (NEM YORK)

auult casaride dnelteriao

---

## Page 53

14-00000

..iddizono subeoetsess

w.aess.ce.ate canomdnciee .

isucudec pieis

HW6

SPEESTUELL

ORIGINATS3

Giricia

lorran resccteivo

CCOROIAT.".G

DAJE

T"$516

iar

CEECES SORt"E

'fusttx"

EOSTING

AID/A7

-RHD HIS

•..a

3BAS

300/T

INITIAL

311-S36948

SrcE STuaX

F/IIE

CR:E

900763

ea sagiatAr ?er

PRReRRS

t. r. PpeseiSlives

DISPA7CH

i ds'seinis, vi ptéto im

---

## Page 54

14-00000

-...cepe1»

отоіновсіодіNN

•incantes.

FORM

553

(40)

USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PAGE NO.

CONTINUES

---

## Page 55

14-00000

FEI DOCUMENT

DATE: 21 AUGUST 1963

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUEJECT: : PIOS DEJOIE - FSGISTRATION ACT - HAITI

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

---

## Page 56

14-00000

is K,neit..

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE i 6 AUG 63

10

• DIRECTOR

FROM I DODS

ACTION WH 8.

(Wis & IN NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT

1715 6 AUG 5PJ 1.

INFO

C a CAP, 4000 5001, 000S/ 205l ca 2

51/0, F1/ONT, 10, D0/1, AD/CIZ,

RF 2.

161

ẠUG 6 2122Z 63

PRIORITY

IN 94397

PRITY DIR CITE DODS 8466.

INTEL

SUPDATA:

W CUMMINI

NO DISGEMINATION OF THE ATTACHNO

TO PORTION OF THIS CASLE HAS BIATI

MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PONCHIA

GALEST DY THE ACTION LANTE

TDCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

RELEASING IWO:

C'sir 36-1-766

DATE DISTRLENTED:

BASED ON

SECRET

LAISON:

EXCIUDEO NO

STOMATIC

DOWNERING

AND

04418734841HN

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISTED

Copy Na.

Paparade finine dres

---

## Page 57

14-00000

SEGRET

10

7.914 .

46

INTO

PAGE 2

IN 94397

TOES

mansitler the alainstees

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO

DISSEM AEROAD CONTROLLED DISSEM.

SUBJ: HAITI INVADING FORCE

DOI: 6 AUGUST 1963 PADA: OMIT PLACE ACQUIRED 6 AUGUST 1963

APPR: DEFER HQS.

SOURCE:

IN COMMENTI

TDES

PRECDENCE

ROUTINE

PRiORITY

RELEASING IWOR

DATE DISTRISUTED

SUSED ON

LAISON:

TRE:LOID IRC

OUr!

AUTQNLATIC

SCINGALDING 2ND

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED

Copy No.

to sir

---

## Page 58

14-JUOSd

ME 7G.1410

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

one an do Maranda or carrial.

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIC OLEN - DISSENATION CONIZOS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORT RiO.

DATE 0:SEZ

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

TDCS

DATE OF

INFO.

PLACE &

DATE ACO.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

is 9÷397

THiS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION.

SOURCE GRADI

FIELO REPORT NO.

DEFINITIVE.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENTIS

I TENTATIVE.

1. THE FORCE INVADING HAITI ON 6 AUGUST 1963 REPRESENTS ALL OF

THE HAITI EXILES AND IS NOT REPRESENTATIVE ONLY OF THOSE ASSOCIATED

WITH LEON CANTAVE. ACCORDING TO LOUIS DEJOIE, HAITIAN EXILE LEADER

THE PRESIDENT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMTRICAN STATES SOME TIME AGO

ARRANGED THÄT ALL OF THE HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS SHOULD ACT TOGETHER AS

• ONE BODY.

2. THE FORCE IS COMPOSED OF SEE ARMED MEN RATHER THAN THE 250 FIRST

REPORTED BY THE PRESS. THE GROUP HAS 1582 ARMED MEN STANDING 3Y, (FIELD

COMMENT. WHERE THE GROUP IS STANDING BY IS NOT STATED.)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

CONFIDENTIAL

DId LEONTlACSI, MANY, AIR

DES SCORE MA DIS TATO OSTA OCT ONE I GER

098 / 088, 69

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORTA

pres

IKA OSSOLSTE PREVIOES IDSTIONS.

(35-95}

-3709

---

## Page 59

14-VUJUU

TOES.

G429]

PATE

jO THE FORCE MUST FRISE U.S, $258, EDE. IN ORDER TO MAKE THE INVASION

SUCCESSFUL, MALE OF THAT AMOUNT HAS ALREADY ESEN RAISED IN EUROPE.

HERBERT ITKIN, A NEW YORK ATTORNEY REPRESENTING LOUIS DEJOLE AND OTHER

HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS, IS PHONING AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN IN AN ATTEMPT

TO RAISE THE OTHER HALF.

...:::

-..

disintegied train

ONFIDENTIAL

N1ES FELLIO DI)

.. Hes

LET PIYOUS

5000N

END-OF MESSAGE

CASSHICATON -DOSSELINI: CONTROLS

COL, NUATION OF TOCS NiDiNATION REPORT

12033

---

## Page 60

14.00000

STATE DEPT DOCUVENT - LEHORANDUM OF COTVERSATION

DATE: 22 WAY 1953

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: "IN'S OF HAITIAN OPPOSITION LEADER LO'IS

FILE NO: 819192

---

## Page 61

14.00000

Attendia.

DEPI. OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE INFORVATION FEPOPT

DATE: 16 MAY 1963

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL - NO FOREIGN DISSEY

SURJECT: HAITIAN GOVERNHENT IN EXILE

REPORT NO: 2231011563 (Puero Rico)

---

## Page 62

14-00000

201 PERSOMALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

Made

FROM:

1164.

ACTION

TRUE MAME

'".

DYLe

(LA81)

SECRET

POTR: SEE INSTRUCTION. ON REVERSE SIDE TYPE OR PRINT

OFFICE

TES

FILE

BESTRICTED

(BI888)

(Middlo)

PHONE

92:1019

TUBE AGGRESS

Fins

PERMANENT

201

но.

P=4БiS

GRUE VARIATS AND TELECODES (seE InstruCtiona, ites 6)

(Fires)

(Middlo)

P1D.

DATE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP

10JO. EOUNTRY OF BIRTH

iz. OcCUPATION feloar cont)

10. CITY/TORN OF BIRTH

it Man blaind.

OCE, CODE 1J. SUL

OT CODI

at tri al

1S. DOCUMENT STHESE & NUMBLA

DATE

IB RESIDENCE

17, COMMENTS (text lor Indes corde)

+43699-9

He a cale do lo Mean de belle Cooled de lis tire on

SO. COUNTRY OF LOCATION

INFORMATION ADDRESSEES

CRYPTONYM

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTER

8-63

* 831

18. ACTION DESK

CODE

SO. SECOSSARY DES

MAND CARRY OR FORTARD BY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE.

801 MO.

834368.

SECRET

(38-91)

if it or ence lie to

---

