# 180-10141-10238

## Page 1

180-10141-10238

2023 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 / 3

rju.

Eld it

#IA

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM

UNCLASSIFIED®

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

TO

2

3

5

6

NAME AND ADDRESS

Mr. shepares

Dx-6 treen

DATE

INITIALS

13 JUN 1978002

Barbara

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

ACTION

APPROVAL

COMMENT

CONCURRENCE

DIRECT REPLY

DISPATCH

FILE

INFORMATION

PREPARE REPLY

RECOMMENDATION

RETURN

SIGNATURE

Remarks:

Passed 50

Retuner

Sanitige,

Class

APPROVER FOR RELEASE 1993

CIA WISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

LEAP

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

DATE

FORM NO. 237

1-67

UNCLASSIFIED

Use previous editions

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

(40)

110:

141-10238

---

## Page 2

TRANSMITTAL SLIP

DATE

6/22/18

ТО: CI/EXO

ROOM NO.

BUILDING

ZD 39

REMARKS:

BARBARA :

As PEr OUR CONVERSAtION.

FROM:

ROOM NO.

120420

FORM NS-241

BUILDING

REPLACES FORM 36-1

WHICH MAY BE USED

EXTENSION

9173

(47)

ARPROVED FOR MOLENSE 1933

CIA MISTORORE REVIEN PROGRAM

---

## Page 3

10045%

Bartara

x1839

2D 39

CI/EXO

-SECRET

OLC 78-1065/42

12 June 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Mr. Shepanek

0/SA/DO/O

FROM

SUBJECT

:

Mr. Rodger S. Gabrielson

OLC/C&R

: Sanitization of HSCA Researcher Notes

1. (S) Attached for your review, appropriate sanitization, and

classification is a copy of the notes taken by HSCA researcher Harold

Leap concerning CIA personnel at Japan Station.

Please use black grease pencil to excise and directly above

the excised information please write in a sanitized

description of the

intormation excised, for example: employee, asset, etc.

3.

(U) Please send us a copy of the notes after your sanitization

and we will forward to the Committee.

All original notes will be kept in this

office under the name of the particular researcher involved.

carries

decenteen

Rodger S. Gabrielson

Attachment

SEGRET-

---

## Page 4

Mame

aterview

Willian Grawford

Do B

19 Sept 24

SSN

429-26-4954

address...

= 4944 Can ST, Cept 806

San Diego, Ca..

92109

Elephom + 714-272-2770

at 9:30 An on 5-14-78

Staff

investigato Harado deas interviewed

57 william hanfied, former exceutine offic

But te cit station so atsuge Dape

his tended of to and

Haval Ciirbaae...

Comfort admine de t he didn

know.. c.10.. and sever heard the main

until afte the ash in f IFIC.

The 21-2 pagean administered by

the cit at. Argi dismal Dave

their awn radio-radar facilitis, the

u-z planes atlaged the Maral hase

nd. landing clear an

The after A employers at Estaug

had no. clandes tom acting other her

1:2. pagraum....

---

## Page 5

2.

resour

were hardled

i e case.

the case officers sletion ed

degram

Tal cover.. slo

1. Clange was that to te 24z plen

I was used

monito radio acting i the almashere

Ra fel the alame acted is epit

installed. & measure

i factor is ton so. 4

Oswald would hau seen 2h-2-2

take-off and ligh at the baw hower

he would have no other information

Radar operators would not. he

able

trace the 1.2 out flyis.

pala cared tale in the oppo

chirection..

The 1:2 would

fly to a staging area (Pershar, Pabiolan

were aware of the over- flights. from

195-5

dichoot.

woe. the abilit

t shool. Cho t1-2 down at the attitud

af the 4.z flight.

respective service tact with the

understanding that al the completi

---

## Page 6

ing... would y

ly a mont to service tim

cind at a ranh

see ritar.

chia contemporaries. all.

program

cin binates tapail

the U-2 was ponded of along;

aya over haul was

made onl

in A- 5.

mise for te air toe.

/rogram.wa.terminal.

1960..

---

## Page 7

Handed:

enford and thet

Lad Itto been

asocinted with

ciAtetion,. Le, as exte

fice, world've thou stout est.

tristance

---

## Page 8

gun

213 0 lan lancon

fog.x.enttrs.co

with the

C' in 1965 a J4490 961 cas

stelane astertant for li 5 2

Siation.

4. Fridiner C. Randall,

DoR: 150628155-96

505: 98: 4065, Fennil imple at esteem

and das creed Handell indelion inch te

Sipt 121

Ang. IS.

Fader, Inter i at it inta

---

## Page 9

scale.

5 ..

Wood's

at. tabyo

_3-31-78.

Carnet

be Georgel ron.

Bretzel, DoB 12 Ac 2.).

SSN 074-18-5912

1480/ Springialld

Samanteun ml, télechone qu3-6908 . fors

..S. R. B.

presently retinel

7,: Howard M.Ovi, DOB 22 Jul 73,

retired....

Dir, clish offien for Japan

59-61 {5R Dir

T 4-11-781

3

=9

heme.19.40.z

---

## Page 10

Robert N.

SSN.

257-28-6051, addreas

5011 Ghe way dr.

Sonord case e cen

telephone - 305-373-7434

Jan 59

430-78.

10.

3663. NW 21s/, Miami, Pla.

eleshone : 305-634- 2997 .

former.

militang intelligene.

insteriritaes 5-1-7.8

11. celiam Vedian

•s Bals, cause 03201 1164.

Trials:,

telephone: 617-545-6113. forma EssciA

intervale apas sfrom 1961.20.1965

interviened

13.

C6415

---

## Page 11

CrA employees

selled

The above joche tens

frame

James Writt

16.1964.

losed lear

martaus tentiat

was.a...crA

Lefore dom statine

Engro and Titles munant

29.7100 63.

the a tie that conserto.

conversation

i ate a see end acid meeting

41yo

ras a cit agent ou intelligen

(a).

luring his tour of duty with the silting

---

## Page 12

• (e) ..

he allegati

(1)

Kid you know James i Shie lee in Japer?

a cir

22225

The perrin

However they had no

pliase.

of the by the KGB died in to?

---

## Page 13

é... fox.

was...se

speculation

iA, The conversation

wi team

althought

the cant phy are licene

of the

---

