# DOCID-9057-32-40

##
104-10175-10033

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Rosassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65987 Diate: 10-28-2021

BATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF LEVEERS

PLE TEENINE OUR LIHUFFL

DCD FILE 0376-2-1

INCLUSIVE DATES: _

CUSTODIAL UNITLOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE

RECEIVED

DATE

RETURNED

22JV2521-1-4I1,I8

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

ED LOPEZ

SIGNATURE OF REVISTING OFFICI:

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROS THIS FILE

65984 Docld 0057-32-40
---

##
104-10175-10033

MATERIAL REVIENED AT CIA MEADQUARTERS ISY

HOUSE: SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF BENDERS

FILE TITLENUMBERVOLUME: _

LIHUFFL

DON FILE 20316

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNITLOCATION:

ROOM: _

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

RECEIVED

RETURNED

21JNL42521 I YS.

REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME)

ED LOPEZ-.

SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Edwins fare righ,

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

V 659

Rcld:9057-32-40
---

##
104-10175-10033

SEGRET

1a. an Irtolligent soson, and 1n all our coettago

sle kas appeared

nature and atteriste, She las been prospt and sellable is her

oetlugs. She dincusses ber probless calmly and accepts instruction

and critician althout argusert. She too responded nell to laetruct

Lons and has sorted hard in tryingto improvo hor reporting, she

appears to be sell adjested to hor environment alich lo sost of.

tresoly try108 at tires.

In discussions concerning the Cornunist and leftlot coveranto,

she adaitted that at ons tize she nas lafluenced by their 1deo1ozy.

but as she had trous oldor and had ouserven sure oi tieii auiivilive

and personallties, she bad lost all respect for them. she sald that

she had boen fooled by Fidel Castro 1a bie early daya and had

thought he sould be good for Cuba, bat as events have devoloped

sho has ases hou sistaken she had been origluall.". she also commanted

that in long talks vith LIHLUCK, he had opened her eyes to the

fallacy of the Comrunist Ideology, In all of these conversationa

she has appeared sircore in her statesente. For Linson sith LINLUCK

apposra to be based on deep affection for lia and not on proclo

culty. The case officer has the impression that 11 there nas not

a pr OBe Rt Mr B. LINLUCK she would becone lejally bla sife. This 15

a probles that say have to be faced 10 the rutara.

IJICOOKY-2 doesal E present any personnel probles. abile bla;

ascho 1o a Brall ono and his access lo llulted, llo assignaerita

are carriod out conselentlously.

So Proble RE

Thoro aro no unuszed probless presentad by tato projoct.

SECRET

NW 65987 Docld 9057-32-40
---

##
104-10175-10033

SECKe T

SALI

113 5220-

*

u...:

r..

..

*:900

43.

CONTRE:

A NF

LIC005T-8 adaftied the acceas to ber connunist contacte bere

had been hurt as a result of hor indus assoclation vith lllect.

al tho Else bo pablicly, broko nith the party, le an exasplo of

Chlor: 15570) Toralla told her that autlerrer had referred to I Il LEss

cas A LICOOKI-I as "enenles" of the party and that he had bees reprtenad

':::Gili:od 807; Bocho E LUC then he firat arrived la toun. Fa had boon.

":" forbladen: to eee althor one of then.

Ti: "6. Bifeelltenese."E

::#LIC0589-1a target studies and sungestions on poasible recrultant

approaches hasibeen lalptal, Ebilo hor reporting for ine didn paù:

conth has not produced any Inforuation Reports, It has kept the

...

station anaro of the activitios in her particular area of access.

Il she la successial li perforals bor taska is outlined 1a the

...-..

paragrapa under "production" abova, such liforsation u1ll ba. usefal

to the station: IICOOXI-2'e elfoetiveness lo llaltad to Elo surros

target, but such travel Information that he does provide doca

sor Te a usefal purpose.

1?:.

F977

It 1s plansed to continue the present direction and guidance

81r8n to LICüNT-1 11 as OSf Ort to In Crease the qua Rt Ity and gual IES

of her productios.

Tha saso attention a1ll to given to LICOCRI-2.

SECRET

NW 65987 Docld:9057-32-40
---

##
104-10175-10033

sist

GLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON UNIT AGTIFIED

PETAL COPIES

o..

REFRODUCTIC PROMBIEED

14

--

F00M

MEXICO CITY

ACTI

ASVANCE CERT

TUDED

SECRE : 1277-13-2

SUAT INFO TIP CITE EXI 2772 ASBY ACTING:

RES HGG 3535

MIA 25325

HAM 9477

13 Me F5l: 22433

HKM 9525

1. ALTHOUSH LISOCHY-I SCURCE OF REFS AND D, LUBLUCH CONTACI

TO MIGUEL ANDEL IDELLA RUESOS LAS BEEN MUCH CLOSER. SINCE REFS

TORALLA HAS CONFIDEL FOLLOWING IO LINLUCK:

A RICARLE PAIREZ LE LECH IS PEAL LEADER OF FAR AND PERSCHALLY

PARTICIPATED IN ASSASSIMATION OF ONE COL. CLIVA AND

SON. RAMi REZ

DET

far is decemud ax

5-6399-81-115-651

NW 65987 Docld:9057-32-40
---

##
104-10175-10033

ELEGEDLY ORDERED ACES OF CO. "COTIA ALE JUST ESCAPED WITH MIS

LIFE (SEE REF AS. R ALSO CODE-DO FURLING AID GARAGE IN WHICH

TORALLA PARTICFATE.

BO SUAT WE!A: HAMED JUS"A LADIOS MOVES BACK AND FORTH FREELY BETWEEN

MEXICO AND

GUA? AS COURIER TO YON SOSA FROM VICTER "Al UEL SUTIEPREZ,

OF WHOM SHE ASE HUSEA!O RAFAEL ARE INTIATE FRIENDS. RAFAEL 1S

SPAMISH REPUEL ICA! AHE FOR"EP CHAUFFEUR FOR PRESIDENCY DURING ARBENZ

REGIME. EXILED MEXI IN 1954. CLICOOKY-I HAS IDENTIFIED "JUANITA"

LARIOS GUTIERREZ AS CUIJUT BETWEEN VICIOP MANUEL GUTIERPEZ AND DR.

RAUL OSEGUEDA. L- I SCURCE IS OSEGUEDA WHO CONFIRMED JUA"ITA COURIER

ROLE AND SAID HER LAST TRIP TO GUAI WAS EARLY FEB.)

2. DURING FIRST TIREE DAYS i N MEXI, LIPLUCK ASKED LICOOKY

Pu T

TORAL: A UP AT HER APT. TACREATER TORALLA MOVER 19 WITH APEL

CUENCA PASTINEZ.

3. 4 MARCH IDALLA CUFIDED FOLLOWING TO LICOCKY CLILUCK ABSENT

IN FRANCE QWING SERICUS ACCICENT TO SON:

A. I HAS HAI THREE METINES WITH VICIOR MANUEL GUTIERPEZ WHO GAVE HIM

MOREY TO PAY SCARD AT CUENCAS, KNE ASSURED HIM PGT CA! GET HIM

WOF.KIIS PAPES HERE THRU GESEENACION.

B. G TOLD T HAD RECEIVED FIME REPORI FROM PGI AND I SO WOULD

SECRET

1340.31

NW 65987 Docld:9057-32-40
---

