# DOCID-2011-34-43

##
Date :

2398-0-1

Page

: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOMCSF

RECORD NUMBER

: 194-10013-10339

RECORDS SERIES

: DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: ZF0003-0-0W - PAGES 1377 - 1378

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

USA

FROM

ERICKSON, CA JR

TO :

TITLE : LETTER

DATE: 0969-1-0

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

: DEFECTION OF ARMY PERSONNEL

AGENT REPORT

PULLEY, INGRID

LEE, ARTHUR JR.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 2095-0-3

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS

:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

* * *

* * *

* * *

* *

*W*

*I*

*T*

*H*

*D*

*R*

*A*

*W*

*A*

*I*

**

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

* * *

***

***

NW 66000 Docld:2011-34-43
---

##
CONHDENIAL C

DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

BERT IN STATION 766TH MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DETACHMENT

66TH MILITARY INTELLIGENCE GROUP

APO 09742

DAP

Aod.

AEUTMI -O-G (CE)

SUBJECT: PULLEY, Ingrid

DPOB:

20 January 1934, Halberstadt, Germany

9 October 1969

Commanding Officer

766th MI Detachment

66th MI Gr Oup

ATIN: AEUTMI-OP-CECS

APO 09108

1.

(U) Reference:

Letter, this Station, dated 10 September 1969,

Subject as above.

2. (C) Attached is one Agent Report reflecting in summary, the.

_results

of Technical Coverage in effect on SUBJECT from 10 September 1969 to

date.

FOR THE COMMANDER:

1 Incl:

as

A. BRICKSON FRA

CW4, USA

Operations Officer

1377

GROUP 3

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.

CONHOENIIA

NW 66000 Docld:2011-34-43
---

##
CONFIDENTIAL

AGENT REPORT

(SR 380-320-10)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

PULLEY, Ingrid

DOB: 20- January 1934

POB: Halberstadt, Germany

2. DATE SUBMITTED

9 October 1969

3 CONTROL SYMBOL OR FILE NUMBER

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

On 6 October 1969, Source BER-10 provided information regarding

correspondence to SUBJECT, a summary of which is as follows:

A personal letter, dated 30 September 1969, addressed to SUBJECT

from Sergeant Arthur Lee Jr., 425-94-4603, Student Company B, USIMA,

Mata Company Grade Class 4-70, Box 6745, Fort Bragg, North Carolina, 28307,

a Negro associate of SUBJECT, indicates that Lee is presently undergoing

training at Fort Bragg. Lee mentioned that he left Germany to go to

Vietnam but that he is, at the moment, unsure that this assignment will

occurr. Lee stated that a determination as to whether he goes to Vietnam

should be reached in January of 1970. If Lee does go to Vietnam, he will

send for SUBJECT In the early part of 1970.

AGENT'S NOTES: Attention is invited to Agent Report by the

undersigned, dated 10 September 1969, Subject as above, wherein Lee's

intention to marry SUBJECT is reported. Lee is apparently the father of

SUBJECT'S expected child.

1378

GROUP 3

DOWNGRADED AT 12 YEAR INTERVALS;

NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED.

5O TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPFCIAL AGENT

NORMAN E. HAWES, 766TH MI DETACHMENT

FORM

DA I APR2 341

ONE

ECIAL AGENT

EHtawes

0 - 4883

NW 66000 Docld:2011-34-43
---

