# DOCID-7664-32-34

##
Date: 0704-1-2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10066-10213

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : BRECKINRIDGE, S.D.

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

MEMO: MEETING WITH HSCA CHIEF COUNSEL G. ROBERT BLAKEY.

1978-06-20

SUBJECTS : MEETING

SCA REQUESTS

CALVILLO

GARO, ELENA DEPA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 1993-0-7

COMMENTS

: JFK11 : F10 : 1993.07.19.09:02:09: 0410-2-1

Released under the John F. Kenned,

Assassination Records Collection et ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-25-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10066-10213

NW 65924 Docld:7664-32-34
---

##
OLC: 78-24062

20 June 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with HSCA Chief Counsel G. Robert Blakey

In the course of a meeting with Mr. Blakey this morning, we

discussed the method by which questions would be put to the agent

in Mexico. It developed that he has in mind two agents, the one about

whom we knew (Durant) and one with which we were not familiar

(Manuel Calvillo). I think he was not entirely clear as to these two

people, although his alternative approaches place on us a requirement

to be sure that we identify them properly for purposes of his questions.

They are discussed below:

a.

Durant. He recalled that Durant operated the photo-

graphic surveillance post of the Soviet Embassy. I told

him that I understood that Durant was in charge of the

Cuban coverage.

bo Manuel Calvillo. He understood that Calvillo ran the

Cuban photographic surveillance site. Beyond this,

however, Calvillo was of interest to him for other

reasons. Elena Garo de Paz told of seeing Oswald at

various parties

in Mexico City, at the time of his

visit there in 1963. She also said that 'a couple of

days" after the assassination of President Kennedy,

Calvillo picked her up, took her to a hotel and inter-

rogated her.

2. Given the possible confusion of who operated the Cuban and

Soviet OPs, MI. Blakey said that he would want the individuals

correctly identified and have the questions addressed to them.

3. Additionally, Mr. Blakey wants such information as we have

on Calvillo.

1- SACLA

1- 0Ex0CI

OLC: SDB:kjw (21 June 1978)

Distribution: Original - OLC Chrono

PCSLOC (Shepanek)

OS (Sullivan)

NW 65924 Docld:7664-32-34 Page? Hondachalat)

S. D. BRECKINRIDGE

6793

---

