# DOCID-9184-32-16

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

1820-1-1

AGENCY :

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10169-10003

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-82555-215

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

1963-12-02

SUBJECTS :

LHO, ADVICE, OPINION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1997-12-10

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA,

COMMENTS :

NW 65994 Docld:9184-32-16
---

##
4-3 (Rev. 4-17-63)

DECODEDOCOPY

AIRGRAM

AX CABLEGRAM

RADIO

TELETYPE

Toison -

Belmont

Mohr -

Casper -

Callahan

Conrad

De Loach

Evans -

Gale -

Rosen _

Sullivan

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

VERY-URGENT

12-2-63

TO DIRECTOR

CIA HAS NO ORJECTION TO

agreed"2082

FROM LEGAT MEXICO CITYECLASS!.!.

RELEASE

INFORMATICIEEN JAIL

5-15-92

BUF ILE 105-82558

NTHS DOCUMENT.

9803 KDDKR

-EE HARVEY OSWALD, IS - R. BRACUTS i N VEGASSIN BU

DEA PER MA ON

REMYCAB NOVEMBER 30 LAST.

тр's 284.k2097)

5-8-92

II 6 45 4

WINSTON M. SCOTT, HEAD DE, CIA, MEXICO CITY ADVISED WAS IN-

FORMEDYEY CAPTAIN WHEELOCK,

NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

REPRESENTATIVE ,THAT ALVARADO TOLD HIM THIS AFTERNOON THAT HE

RECANTES HIS ORIGINAL STORY BECAUSE OF FEAR OF PHYSICAL HARM.

ALVARADO BEING DEPORTED TO NICARAGUA ON DECEMBER 4 NEXT AND WILL

BE ACCOMPANIED BY CAPTAIN WHEELOCK](5)

BECAUSE OF ALVARADO'S INSISTENCE THAT HE SAW SUBJECT HERE

ON SEPTEMBER 18 LAST, WHEN INVESTIGATION SHOWS SUBJECT IN NEW

ORLEANS, IT IS MY OPINION ALVARADO IS LYING WHEN HE SAYS HIS

ORIGINAL STORY WAS TRUE.

YESCOTT ADVISES WHEELOCK ASSURES ALVARADO WILL BE AVAILABLE E

FOR INTERVIEW IN NICARAGUA IF SO DESIRED.J

SUGGEST BUREAU CONSULT WITH CIA HEADQUARTERS CONCERNING

DESIRABILITY OF HAVING ALVARADO GIVEN POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONL

MANAGUA. I (E(U)

CLARK D. ANDERSON

ALL PIES:

1 CONTADEN

MASHIED

HANG SH03N3 - 63

OTHEADISE

Trai tota

i r.

3AD

CC ME ARO SRANVAN

Chia

2:50 AM

1105-5063-8-2

- 3A4 #71.

ENT

*1983

?..

53 DEC 11 1963

If the intelligence contained in the above

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

NW 65994 Docld:9184-32-16
---

