# DOCID-2098-32-40

##
104-10162-10067

DATE

10

FROM ,

ACTIONI

INTO:

PORM

1389

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55997 Date: 10-28-2021

Fine 0.-

201-7432-2-6

434OMCLHPHP

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 9

27 JAM 1962

SECRET.

DIRECTOR

16-20

HI Pilla R: (chock user.

RIO DE JANEIRO.]

No CS Record Malue. Dustiny.

Hes the this ergy es insinated

HH 5

Branch rujiy thel as indiested

RE Indesine inturk spel:

Myekart

COP, CI, C1CPS, C1IC 2, FlaaflRQ1Z, PP 2, PPPRQ,

PPROP, 100 4,

sc 2

room

ROUTINO

79:60

PEC'O d.r: : GECT.

ROUTINE

16-27

DIR MEXI

INFO

HAVA SAOP) POUCH

CITE

RE: A. MEXI 4997 (IN 31609) *

IN 34195

[R100) 3798

21-20

B. DIR 10832 (OUT 84943)

1. CURAN EFFORTS SEING INTENSIFISD IN BRAZIL. THESE SEFORTS

BEING AIDED BY COMMÜNISTS AND BRAZILIAN NATIONALISTS IN ORDER

DRIVE LARGIWEDGE BETWEEN UNITED STATES AND BRAZIL.

2. VISIT OF ARTIME TO BRAZIL AT THIS TIME WOULD BE VALUABLE

IN GIVING BRAZ GOVT AND PUBLIC FIRST HAND INFO ON CASTRO REGIME

AND METHODS. UP TO NOW ONLY CASTRO AND PRO-CASTRO PERSONS HAVE

VISITED BRAZIL. CURRENT VISIT OF CUÉANE EMISSARIES TO PROPAGANDIZE

UNDER DEVELOPMENT CONFERENCE HAS RECEIVED FAVORABLE PUBLICITY BY

AND LARGER EMISSARIES HAVE STATED THAT CONF WILL BE GOOD SOUNDING

BOARD FOR OPA. THIS UNDOUBTEDLY WILL STRIKE HARMONIOUS NOTE WITH

MANY HIGH GOUT OFFICIALS.

3. IN PLANNING FOR VISIT ARTIME AND METHOD OF INVITING HIM

TO BRAZIL REQUEST MEXI INFORM BIOD: SA

A.

IS ARTIME WITTING.

B. MECHANISM THRU WHICH HE BEING EXPLOITED IN MEXI.

C. CAN SAME MECHANISM SPONSOR HIM IN BRAZIL.

D. IF NOT IS IT POSSIBLE FOR RIOD ORG SUCH AS ALSARD

SECRET

REPRODUCTION: BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICÉ IS PROHIBITED. Copy No

(05)

DO NOT REFRODUCE

RETURN TO CL

518

NW 65987 Docld:2098-32-40
---

##
104-10162-10067

PILENO.

DATE

27 JAN 1958

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO :

CLASSHED MESSAGE

SECRET

RE Villas (eback ene):

No CR lincorr, I'ahre. Heatroy.

RI Ale tha copy as indicated

Hrunch rogy lied as indiction

RE Inclenine raree one!:

Starded

None requirns

БідпАРи

PAGE TWO

ROUTINO

TO

ROUTINE

2-20 3479-08-1038

CITE

INFO

(IDEN) TO INVITE HIM TO BRAZIL.

E. METHOD BY WHICH RIOD SPONSORING ORG COULD

LEGITIMATELY LEARN OF ARTIME STORY.

F. AVAILISILITY OF ARTIME NOW.

G. WOULD ARTIME ACCEPT INVITATION BY ORG SUCH AS ALSARD.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT:

*STATED MEXI GAVE ARTIME 3,000

HOLDING RECEFTION FOR PRESS 20 JAN.

PESÓS TO HIRE: PUBLIC RELATIONS MAN.

OR 1389 COS PARYOI

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

123)

Copy. No

NW 63987 Docld:2098-32-40
---

