# DOCID-4821-32-33

##
Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 144 USC 2107 Notel. Case#Nw

64578 Date: 11.23-2021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7201-6-1

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

FBI

124-90118-10180

HQ

92-2897-87

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FBI

FROM:

TO :

HQ

DL

TITLE:

DATE: 1959-08-19

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS:

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-08-17

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

TT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:4821-32-33
6

---

##
PLAIN TEXT

AUGUST 19, 1959

TELETYPE

fil TE. 8 953-2547-87

URGENT

TO SACS, DALLAS, OKLAHOMA CITY

FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

HARRY RAYMOND POPE, AKA., FUGITIVE, IO THREE TWO EIGHT

FIVE, WE TWO TWO NINE, UFAP BURGLARY, ADW.

RE OKLAHOMA CITY RADIOGRAM AND TELETYPE BOTH DATED

DESTROYED

GOFIES

AUGUST EIGHTEEN, LAST. AUTHORITY GRANTED TO PAY UP

TO TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS EXPENSE MONEY, IF NEEDED, TO

PCI DORIS HOWARD.

PORE ALLEGEDLY HAS IN HIS POSSESSION

AT ALL TIMES A TIRCE FIVE SEVEN MAGNUM REVOLVER, FORTYFIVE

CALIBER AUTOMATIC, THIRTYEIGHT CALIBER SNUB NOSE REVOLVER

AND SAWED OFF SHOTGUN. HE SHOULD BE CONSIDURED ARMED

10-48 8M AND EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. FRYE ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

U. Si DEPARTMENT OF INSUFE:

COMMUNGATIONS SETIC PCI Doris Howard received information that Peggy Ann Frye

AUG 19 195s very anxious to contact PCI Howard. Frye is a known

associate of Pope and is believed to be with him at the present

frye requestederc I Howard

to come to home of Frye

TELETYPEister in Dallas where Frye' would make contact.

PCI Howard

agreed to come to Dallas Friday night, 82159 for this contact

provided she can contact SA Charles F. Alden who is known to her

Tolson

Belmont

De Loach

Mc Guire

Mohr

Parsons

Rosen

Tamm

Trotter

W.C. Sullivan _

Tele. Room

Holloman --

Gandy -

NW 64578 Docid:4821-32-33-Page 2

and in whom she has complete confidence based upon previous

contact.

SA Alden is proceeding to Dallas to arrive shortly

before PCI Howard where he will report to SAC, Dallas and render

all possible assistance in this case.

Oklahoma City requested

Bureau authority to pay additional 200 expense money, if needed,

to PCI Howard, who has been paid no money except for expenses to

date.

In view of strong possibility that Pope is with Frye at

(See note con't pg. 2)

---

##
...:

i.!

Teletype to

SACS, Dallas, Oklahoma City

RE:

HARRY RAYMOND POPE, aka.

NOTE CONTINUED:

the present time and the fact that if Frye's whereabouts

can be ascertained through PCI Howard, authorization of

expenditure of 200, if needed, appears justified.

10-48 A Our

FEDERAL BUREAU DE INVESTICATION

U. S DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

COMMUMESTIONS SECTION

AUG 1 9 1959

TELETYPE

NW 64578 Docld:4821-32-33
- 2 -

---

