# DOCID-0511-32-36

##
!

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

---

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER

104-10116-10157

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINAROM : CONOVAN E. PRATT DECIRA

: CEBCC

MEMO: ROLE OF VANCOUVER, CANADA, IN DISINFORMATION RE

THE GARRISON INVESTIGATION.

1963-01-01

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

WITHHELD

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS: 2404-0-5

JFK42 : F13: 0225-20-04-8822-10-4

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10116-10157

NW 65924 Docld:0511-32-36
---

##
SEGHET

MEMCRANDUM FOR: CESCC

SUBJECT

Role es Vencouves, Cansdo, lo

Dlainforrastion se tho Carsleor

Inveotigatie?

REFERENCE

000TY-6915, 82 ARg3st 196.

subject: KEYWAYGarzicon Enreetigation

si Keapody Aasnoatoatian: Donald ?

nit

i NOSTOi, Iile 100-300-17.

Reference formarded a ClRu A memorasdum obo U: NORTON

to Chiel dl Staitas, Ottowa. Stuce ihai duie 1 2I reports hivo aboma sbat

NCT.IO ls CóB man, Red.U.S. Al I Furce Modical rocorde havo sa-

reaied that he svas discharged in July 19b7 as a zesuit di paychlatrlc

problemns; havlag triod do too os 10r0 occaciona to commoit salcide.

NCRTON'à lles'aboai Cl A fiesi appeared in the Vascouvor Sun on 5

Auguet 1961.

.2.: The attached I Si sepuit, MSE 77295, 10 April 8967, concerne

arotces esample of distafermntion ampearing in Vascourer, lavaiving to:

Sud, aud selated sa tho Gozricos care.

, check of Agoney Siiee chowed

LIGS FIE BBJE DO ICCOSE DÍ TEFSUI LAUTENS, MAFIO GRACIAS, OSL

Mine Joiotby MUITTY. The irieresce di tbe nuldentllied cadiee to

GRACLAS nay have beoz A garbie lus kenuei CABCIA Coazalce, whori

Parrisca hes named as ons ni ihi anoadaico ot Irecident Kentidy bus

mbe apnoars to bava disameriná oo lo lo noa-extoient.. Tbesc are no

Agency trsces (iacluding JMWAVE) Co GARCIA.

, S. The Conmunici p Icsa gerasally and Sovlot poza mada Epocito.

havo given Gesrion'e atory erthuciastic eoverage aná cupport, becaus:

1 Is obviously la thei? laterest to moturain bat Presidrat Keanedy wzs

SECRET

---

##
SEGIET

sesassinated not by pro-Cosmunist Lee Harvey Onwald but rather sa

o result ef a right tring conaplacy involviag Ci A.

6. The sariaciog of tero such allegallons to or throagh the Vanceuver

Jas seems to place a strain on colncidenco. Do you bave any laformatios

about the mo of in Son to ones an incine of Mion proper

againa: CIA? Is thero say information about contacts botreen employees óf

the Sua and representatives of Sovial inselligence? Il no such informallon

la at band, is mosta be appreciated di theso questiona were forsarded to

the Station. Although Headguarters has no record of Isevos LAUTENS,

li la concelvable that Station files may also hold laformation about hini.

Desavan La Pratt

DCC1Ba A

Attachanasta

Distribation

Orig 1 - Adzessee

I ADOI (Me. Goadwin)

1 - General Counsel

1l - Office of Securlty (Alta: ME, Paul Gayaot)

1 - CIREA Caross

1- DE lot filo (Ver Vaneourer Elle)

1 - CIREA (Miss Saadio)

ECRET

---

