# DOCID-0121-32-40

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10133-10375

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

: CIA

: DIRECTOR

: WITHHELD

: CABLE RE HIJACKING OF CAPTAIN ALONZO CAMPOS ESCALANTE

OF MEXICAN FISHING BOAT"AMIGO".

DATE

: 1968-10-17

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASSINATION

AMIGO HIJACKING

SHAG BOQUE CAY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 0304-0-6

COMMENTS : JFK48 : F173: 0226-20-04-0427-10-5

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-26-2021

.. - -

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10133-10375

NW 65924 Docld:0121-32-40
---

##
DRIC:

ROBE,

C.

BROWN

3 NIT:

WH2ESHOND

2X7:

7163

DATE:.

25 OCTOBER 1968

CASLE SECRETARIAT DIS

EMIMATION

28

MESSAGE FORM

M TOTAL COPIES:

I CRET 33

E-INDEX

E-NO INDEX

i MFO:.

DESTROY

RETURN TO

BRANCH;

1 FILE IN ES FILE NO.

CONF:

RID COPY:

PILE

5006

and time

SELURY

(dassification)

SECRET

55 203

17 2 0cт 63

CITE DIRECTOR

folito

(raleranco, numbor)

4.502

Г

GUATEMALA CITY

INFOU TEGUCIGALPA,

-MEXICO CITY -IMCOBRA

4080-2-0

REF.

MEXICO CITY 7793. (BEING RELAYED TEGUCIGALPA)

REUTERS REPORT OF 25 OCTOBER FROM BELIZE SAYS

POLICE HOLDING 13 AMERICANS WHO SET UPSARMED CAMP ON TINY

ISLAND OF SHAG BOQUE CAY SOUTHEAST OF BELIZE. CAPTAIN

ALONZO CAMPOS ESCALANTE OF MEXICAN FISHING BOAT "AMIGO"!

TOLD POLICE BOAT HAD BEEN HIJACKED BY AMERICANS.'

THEY

ORDERED BOAT TO HEAD FOR BRITISH HONDURAN WATERS WHERE

RENDEZVOUS WITH ANOTHER BOAT WAS PLANNED. NAVES OF FIVE OF

13 AMERICANS ARE CHARLES ORR CONNELL AGE 30, ROBERT CURTIS

AGE 31 OF POMPANO BEACH FLORIDA, HERBERT JOHN FENDERN AGE

26 OF VERO BEACH FLORIDA, FRANK BONELLI AGE 44 AND MAX

GORMAN BOTH FROM MIAMI.

POLICE CONFISCATED RIFLES, CARBINES

AMMO AND ANTI-COMMIE LITERATURE.

NAME-OF SECOND BOAT NOT PROVIDED.

3. INDEX FIVE AMERICANS WHO PLANNED SET UP BASE FOR

OPS" AGAINST. CUBA

FILE 108-120-11

RELEASING OFFICER

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS

cluded frora: outomat

downgrading and''

S-EC RENT

REPROD ICTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED:

NW 65924 Docld:0121-32-40
FILE: 31D

mu M

AUTHENTICATING

OFFICER SA

COPY, NC

---

##
ROUTING :ANDOR:THITIALS SESH'EY

RIG

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES::

SECRETT

LINATION

3:

D RETURN TO

DESTROY 2

EFILE IN CS. PLE MO:

RID: COPY

DJINDEX

NO INDEX

FILE M

(date and time: filed)

10

BRANCH

(reterence number)

SE. CRESI

CITE DIRECTOR

0023-7-5

WH. Comment

PAGE TWO

Ref describes.theft of t Ell Amigoland involvement

of Max GORMAN, Roberter CURTIS and others who

planning set up base for opslagainst Cuba and

to go to Guatemala and clean out anti-Guat

guerrillas:

Celim Ma Suitts

JOHN R. HORTON

ACWHD

in3a b. Burris. (telecoord)

WH1

BR. Harrington (telecoord)

WHCOG J. Mertz (telecoord)

Clini

EDWIN M

TERRELL

CWH2

NW 65924 Docid: 0121-32-400p753

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SCE CRETA

Richie fron out

tros-automatic

declaulficatica

AUTKENTICETI

: OFFICER. :

---

