# DOCID-2496-32-30

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8201-5-2

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10282-10008

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2914-111

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, PG

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

1961-04-07

1

[Restricted]

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-05-14

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:2496-32-30
23

---

##
FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

FBI

Transmit the following in

Date:

44961

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRTEL

Via

TO:

FROM:

RE:

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2914) (92-2918)-

SAC, PITTSBURGH (92-236) (92-228)

GABRIEL

MANNARINO, aka.

AR

SAMUEL MANNARINO, aka

on 4761 PCI HERBERT LEE RAY, who lives across the road

from GABRIEL MANNARINO's cottage on Old Leechburg Road,

RD #3, Leechburg, Pa., advised as follows:

KELLY MANNARINO has not been observed at the cottage during

the past couple of months, except for brief, infrequent

visits to inspect progress as to construction additions

and refinements. The cottage is now completed and is equipped

for full-time occupancy, if so desired.

It consists of three

bedrooms, bath, living room, dining room, kitchen, screened-in

patio porch, detached two-car garage,

and detached dog pen

and kennels.

The small lake in front is filled and landscaping

has been finished, including natural tree removal, construction

of a stone retaining wall, and planting of evergreens and grass.

A caretaker spends a lot of time, on an apparently irregular badia r

feeding the three German Shepera

dogs, mowing the grass,

cleaning up debris, and maintaining the house interior.

It is

expected that KELLY MANNARINO will soon commence regular

residence at the cottage.

BOTH SUBJECTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

. 6-Bureau

UNRECORDED COPY

3-Pittsburgh

(1-137-1139)

Đx 100.

TGF jab

(9)

92-2914-111

APR 10 1961

ID

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

58 APR 1961-1-3

NW 65994 Docld:2496-32-30
Sent .

_M

Per

---

