# DOCID-8548-32-13

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10058-10065

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER: 62-9060-1-0-4555

feleased under the John F. Nennedy Assassinatior

Yecords Collection Act of 1992 144 USC 2107 Note

Lanet AN 60994 Date: 11-01-2021

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

JONES, M. A.

TO:

WICK

TITLE:

DATE: 1967-02-24

PAGES: 2

SUBJECT: JG, INVEST, ROBERTSON, WILLARD, FINANCIAL BACKING

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Unclassified

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

1998-05-12

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

2001-06-01

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS:

:

NW 65994 Docld:8548-32-13
---

##
OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

-910-146

FLAT 1902 CATION

GSA GEN.

REG. NO. 27

"UNITED STATES GOT. NMENT

Memorandum

Tolson

De Louch

Callahan -

Contad

TO

Mr. Wick

DATE:

2-24-6gpf1

FROM

SUBJECT:

RODICER.

9803

im:

0E

Assassination of

M. A. appes

warp

Tavel

Trotter.

Tele. Room

President John

Holmes -

Gandy

WILLARD ROBERTSON

F.

NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA! AGGITTERY

KENNETION 7854-62-832

INFORMATION CONCERNING MPT : 91

GDS CATEGORY

DATE OF DEO

ASSIMCATION INDEFINITE d. SA

Pursuant to Mr. Deboach's request, the following is set.

forth from Bufiles regarding captioned individual, millionaire-Volkswagen

distributor reportedly finangially backing District Attorney, James,

Garrison in New Orleans.

By communication dated 10-18-63, the New Orleans Office

related that an informant, one Frank Hegeman, a public relations man

with a notorious reputation for passing bad checks and associating with

various gambling figures, was contacted on 9-16-63. During this:!

interyiew, he stated that Willard Robertson, a prominent and wealthy

New Orleans businessman, was currently supporting John Mc Keithen,

a Louisiana gubernatorial candidate in the state Democratic primary.

Robertson reportedly had been extremely active in local New Orleans

politics and had raised large sums of money for previous, political

campaigns, particularly that of Mayor Victor Schiro. Hegeman?

attributed the se

Government.

political activities to Robertson's desire for a good

~ Hegeman further stated that Robertson had recently learned

that'Mc Keithen was being actively backed by Carlos Marcello, "a Jefferson

Farish racketeer, who was attempting to raise campaign funds. by

promising contributors influence in various state appointments. It was

currently felt in political circles that if Robertson were to withdraw his

support,

Mc Keithen would stand little chance of election. Among those

reportedly interested in removing Robertson as the backer of Mc Keithen

was United states senator Russel! Long,

who supposedly was upset over

Marcello's support of Mc Keithen rather than that of candidate speedy Long,

avored by senator Long. Speedy Long was regardedlas the Democratic

administration candidate and was considered the choice of the national

Hegeman-advised that if Mc Keithen were elected Governor

of the State of Louisiana, it was! commonly felt in political circles that the

state would become wide open insofar as gambling and other racketeering

ankuences we re con

AN

-Louisiana

L in 1964

med.

John Mc Keithen was elected Governor of

1 - Mr. Wick

REC-35

ntial

1 - Mr. De Loach

18

MAR

i Y67 Rosentl

1 - Mr. Tolson

1

-

TDH:jo

Mr. Suitivan

(CONTINUED)

NW 65994 Docld:8548-32-13
---

