# DOCID-9556-32-35

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

---

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10113-10268

RECORD

SERIES: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

- ---

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : COTTER. CHIEF, ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFE

TO : FILE

TITLE

: MEMO: LANZ, PEDRO DIAZ - 2792-2-0 - PUBLICITY SURROUNDING

DIAZ'S LEAFLET DROP OVER CUBA

DATE

PAGES

1959-10-26

1

SUBJECTS : LANZ DIAZ

CUBA LEAFLET

DR

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

DOCUMENT IYEE SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 2493-0-7

COMMENTS : JFK41 : E20 : 1993.07.24.11:34:10:0630-2-5

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10113-10268

NW 65924 Docid:9556-32-35
---

##
STANDARD FORM NO. BA

SEGIET

*Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

DATE:

26 October 1959

TO

File

FROM : Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT: IANZ, Pedro Diaz - H2792-2-0

1. In view of the considerable amount of publicity which

was given to the subject over the past weekend with regard to his

allegedly having participated in flights over Cuba from Florida

aropping anti-Castro leaflets, Mr. Bob Reynolds, WH Division, was

telephonically contacted at 8:40 a.m. this date. Mr. Reynolds

advised that CIA had nothing to do with these flights and had no

advance notice of the fact that Pedro Diaz LANZ intended to

participate.

Mr. Reynolds stated that Bernard Reichardt, the

WH representative at Miami, has been in touch with the FBI with

regard to this matter and

also the FBI has been in touch with

Wii representatives in this regard over the past weekend.

2. It is the understanding of this Office that subject

was admitted into the United States as a lawfully admitted

resi-

dent alien returning from a brief stay abroad.

3. Mr. Reynolas further advised that Mr. Reichardt is sup-

posed to be in town today and upon his arrival, Mr. Reichardt

will be put in touch with the writer in order that the complete

story concerning the subject,'s imnigration status, etc., can be

obtained.

3. Colonel Edwards was briefed concerning the above at

8:50 a.m. this date and he suggested that we should assure that

WH has informed "the Hill" regarding the developments in this

matter. This point was raised with Mr. Reynolds and he advised

that various respresentatives of WH have been keeping the Office

of the DCI inforned over the past weekend regarding these develop-

ments.

whatter

Wit

liam J. Cotter

luters)

c: #2923-2-0

OSAASWJC:es 26 Oct 59

SEATER

NW 65924 Docld:9556-32-35
---

