# DOCID-7339-32-41

##
104-10170-10150

Released underthe John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55987 Date: 1028-2021

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

1688-10-040080-61-91

UNTED STATES CONEKNNENT

Memorandum

FROM

: vidicior, des

: úrana;

: cháci, lousion Ufflee

SEBJECT: Jan's GirrisonGiorge grown--Hossible Attcapt

co sabarriss ijency

do ils confirms HaynesGrant telecon of 27 December 15ú1o

2. Herbert Frensley, President of broan and Root, Inco, reported

co liaynes on 25 Ducember chur Mir. George Broun had received d Isturbin,

telephone call on friday, I L Deceroer 1967 from liugh dynesworel:, Houscon

Burcau reporcer for drusious ragaulne. hynesworth cold brown that he had

recoived inforracion iron lll Corvage (apolling?), former aspicture to

New Orleans District Attorney Jaros Gurrison, chat Garrison sigit try to

Implicate Broun in the "Xennedy assassination plot".

The allegation is that in some unspecified manner, Brown was

Involved with

the Chi in les objeculue of "covering up" che "conspiracy"

for President Joinson. synervortii said Gervage has docurents, Including

ae least ore in Garrison's oun handuriting, which presumably have been

extracted iror Garrison's files, Aynesworth irdicated that, if desired.

he could secure these docunents fron Gervage lor revicu by brown.

In vies of iron's close cooperation wich the Agency a ta

Lunding operattons brown asted Frensley lo communicato chis

Informat Ion

It is reporied to licadqunrters only as a matter of informa-.

come Neither krown nor frensley expect any response.

S. allaynes' asked frersley to keep hi. informed of any future

developrents

in this natter.

MI MEAN

ST A. RISCHE

18 T

8X3

Ben Pliagnos tet

RECORD COPY

100-300-017

241-07?3107

NW 65987 Docld:7339-32-41
---

