# DOCID-2379-32-41

##
104-10178-10183

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65997 Date: 10.28-2021

-

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON, D.G.

sOsus

6 MAY 1968

. i

TO

Director

Federal Bureau

of Investigation

Attention:

Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM

Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT:

HUSGROVE, Joe Balley

P.CT

TANT TRE 1093

1P28

fat for

1.

The following paragraphs summarize informa-

tion relayed telephonically to the Bureau, and are

forwarded to you for confirmation and for your files.

On 28 April 1968,

our representative in

12-2 Addis

Ababa reported that Doctor Klaus Steer, a

West German citizen and Director of the African

Scientific Departmen Visited the Americnn Embassy,

E. Merck Aktiengesellschaft,

Karastady,

at the request of the local German Ambassador, and

reported that he had seen a man in Lagos, Nigeria

on 23 April 1968 who strongly resembled newspaper

photographs of Eric Strvro Galt,

who is currently.

wanted in connection with the assassination of

Dr. Martin Luther King.

Steer said that he saw

the Subject at the desk of

the Bristol Hotel on the

afternoon of 23 April when both were checking out

Steer was accidentally given the

hotel accounting receipt for the subject, 03, Receipt

" In a short con-

versation with Subject,

Dr. Steer learned that Subject

employed by the

"Wilder Oil Company" and was en-

route to Marri, Nigeria on an l8 month contract.

Subject told Dr. Steer that he had recently arrived

in Lagos from Las Palmas via Accra on Nigerian Airlines.

The above information was relayed to the

Bureau upon receipt by our duty officer on 29 April

1968.

We were advised that the Bureau records did

see 1792-31-60-68

ERie: 2127-11-202116

6da21.2.78

1455-31-66-48

41-7722-08-32

SECRET

RECORD COFY

file is: 15.on

ie. Facy

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NW 65987 Docld:2379-32-41
---

##
104-10178-10183

-2-

not contain information on Subject or the Wilder

011 Сотралу.

then requested

our representative

in Lagos to investigate this matter through unt-

lateral

means and through liaison.

12-20

On 29 April,

liaison in Lagos-checked the

Bristol Hotel and determined that a Joe Musgrove,

an American employce of Mc Dermott Overscas

arrived in Lagos on 23 April from Las Palmas and stayed'

in Lagos until 26 April

Midwestem State (Warri S "hen he was to leave for the

when he went to Las Palmas on leave.

(city and stato not recorded).

sur representative also obtained a passpo

otograph of the Subject from the Mc Dermott Compar

Number H-2048-10-5, issued in the U. S. and valid until

4 October 1970.

CSCI 1685-31-60-68

SECKET

361-2232-09-3

NW 65987 Docld:2379-32-41
---

