# DOCID-7127-32-30

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2015-6-5

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10291-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 97-4546-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO :

TITLE:

DATE: 1964-03-27

PAGES: 68

SUBJECTS :

MR, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA,

BKG, EMP, ASSOC, AFFIL, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ACA,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-06-11

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

.

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
33

---

##
SECRET

CORRELATION SUNDARY

Main File No: 97-4546

Date: March 27, 1964

Subject: Manuel Ray Rivero

Date Searched: 72463

111 logical varieton were route name and as He searched ca

and identical references were found

1:6-13-21

Manuel Ray-River

Manola Ray

Manole Ray

N.X.

D.C.

Manolo Ray.

Manual Ray

Manue 10Ray

Manue1 Antonio Ray

Manuel Rey-Rivero

Manolo Rey

P.R.

12013

This summary also includes information on Manuel Ray Rivero found

under the following phrase:

PER NAVY LETTER DID.

Manolo Ray Group

6-13-771

Th EIR INTORm ATION

A pas. M SAND 20 CAND

ELLASSIFIED

sesRspe

of all "see" references

This is a summary of information obtained from a review- 6-23-97

to the subject in Bureau files under the.

names and aliases listed above. All references under the above

(FK)

names containing data identical with the subject have been included

except those listed at the end of this summary as not having been

reviewed, or those determined to contain the same information as

the main

file.

This summary is designed to furnish a synopsis of the

information set out in each reference. In many cases the original

serial will contain the information in much more detail.

THIS SUMMARY HAS BEEN PREFARED FOR USE AT THE SEAT OF

GOVERNNENT AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR DISSEMINATION.

Analyst

reggy Ann Boss

MAB: ceg: brh

Coordinator

Approved

Theda W

MCT.

Duncang

Norman

Epstultz

197-4546-23

1 - R. A. Mullins

EG

Tre. A

25' MAR '27 1964

You Atate Mept. letter dia. 1278 info.

Declaed. pop. 41; 59; II Setter cntered

in 190-16444-331. Sob 3JAGAT 2590-10-1

NAt E

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRETI

On 52659, WF 1133-S* learned that Cuban Economic Attache (S

Gonzalo de la Pezuela and Roberto Acosta, Vice President in charge

of the Cuban National Commission for Development, had received

instructions from Cuba to immediately make arrangements at the Export

Import Bank,

Washington, D. C., for a loan of "several million

dollars" for Cuba.

money was to be used for the purchase of

inidentified equipment for cuba.. According to the source.

the

request for this loan had the approval of several Cuban officials.

including Manuel Ray..

Embassy of Cuba, Washington, D. C., is the subject of

62-9180-60-2641

[93-60269-4017-19-67

On 7 1560, Angel Sebastian

Ros Escala advised that he came

to the US on 51960, He stated that he had worked for the July 26

Movement in the underground in Havana until November or December,

remained there entil batist collapse to mayan one wore

While in Havana, he

with Manolo Ray, an action group leader. w)

Ros continued that around March, 1959, he and several

others organized the Movimiento De Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR)

(97-4133)

as an underground anti-Castro organization.

He indicated

that he became general coordinator of the MRR and that his work

recruiting and planning to fight againsi

astro. He related that he also worked for three or four months

(dates. not given) for Manolo Ray, the anticommunist head of the public

works.

position in the same department. Ray was succeeded

When Ray was arrested around November, 1959 by Omaligned his

Cienfuegos. :.

97-4133-20

(21)1

Havana, report dated 11259 revealed that Huber

Matos (105-82086) had decided to remain in Camaguey rather than flee

to the States inasmuch as

he might be able to do more in ridding the

revolutionary Group or communism.

Source stated that Matos' awareness

f the communistic influence in the Government was alerted by Manol

Ray, Minister of Public Works.

Source further stated that Ray andfu

Ni S

REVIEWED BY ESTUFK TASK FORCE

(continued on next page)

ON

6-13-97 07325P

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CECRET

I TOTAL DENIAL

-4-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRETI

(continued)

Further, OA reports to the embassy on "Diego" could be a move

ostracize him. E (u)

DECLASS p ER ARmy 17. DTD. 18-22-97

593-98 178K

WE (1161)s advised that angel Ray, Former CHA(u)

Cuban Min Ister of Public Works, was a member of the underground in

On 2060-1-2, this informant advised that Ray was head of the

undergrouna in cuba. State Department files failed to indicate

whether Manolo Ray was identical to Manuel Ray. )

.05-92.195-6 p. B,1,

St par 3

105-92195-5 p. 11

(23)

n 1760-1-0 WF 1161-S named several individuals who had

ither joined or exhibited interest in joining the anti-Castr

organization called the Resistencia Civica (97-4481)

Among these

was ha informant to be currently residing in NYC.

former head of the Cuban Railroads who was believec

This informant advised that Chibas was in contact with the

Rebel underground in Cuba, particularly with Manuel Ray. Informant

continued that through the association of Chibas and Ray, the Resistencia

Civica in the US was apprised of the current political and economic

situation in Cuba and of the continuing unrest of the Cuban people M

97-4401-1 p. 2

(3>1

On 1860-1-0

CSNY 2822-S advised that troops being trained

completed their training and would

issue; however, it would be launched before the new President took

office.in order

that there would be no criticism against the new

(continued on next page)

_NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
-8_ SECRET

---

##
SECALI

(continued)

The above source and the contingent that he accompanied to the US

planned to side with the MRP faction since they appeared to have

received some sort of US aid and sanction in their joint efforts.

It was their plan to contact Ray personally upon their release from

the detention facility at Mc Allen in an effort to consolidate all

such opposition groups in a united front to combat Castro. i u)

105-94715-7 po 8,14 DECLASS p Er L

Anmy 17. DTD.2291-1-0

5-13,98

resting in in place on ta cast organt (JAK)

the governmental reforms

Castro's system of government but did not agree with communism and

n the ne castrou

was working

castro put into effect and believed in

the influence it had in the Cuban Goverament. (f)(21)

105-80787-376 p. 8,10

(22)V

on 4201, Spencer Meredith, Apt. 17, Vanta Courts, S. W.

12th Ave. and 20th

St., Miami, advised that Rufo Lopez Fresquet

who was

the husband of Anita Whitney (105-97525) and who recently

detected from the castro regime, was closely associated with

Manolo Rey and Raul Chibas of the MRP 4))

105-97525-1

(45)V

On 2661, Rufo Lopez Fresquet (64-44765), 2118 12th Ave.

West, Bradenton, Fla., former President of the Cuban National Bank,

advised that the MRP did not have an organization in the Us but that

there were several members of the organization in the US and Puerto

Among those he named was Manuel Ray (or Rey), Miami,

54-44765-17

(21,45)v

SECRET

A NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
-12-

---

##
SECRET

By letter dated 31661 at Miami, Howard Davis, 450 S. W.

4th St., Miami, MM 639-S,

(134-6356) advised President John F. Kennedy

of the

current

Cuban situation.

Concerning

Manuel Ray, he stated that

during meetings the previous week in I and washington, Ray actively

DC

participated in the future destiny of Cuba. He also stated that

Ray was

heard Ray discussing

his program with other Cubans. Ray advocated that properties confiscated

from American citizens and corporations were not to be returned to

their rightful owners; that no independence be given to the judicial

power; that special Revolutionary Tribunals be kept functioning; and

that Cuba honor Castro's commercial, cultural and political treaties

with Russia; Red China and

their satellites in order to block American

influence in the Republic.

Informant called attention to the fact that while the

youth of Cuba fought against the brutal tyranny of international

communism, Cuban "leaders" such as Ray and others in the US were

egoistically campaigning for the Presidency, the several Ministries

and bureaucratic positions, publicly claiming that they had the

(2)

support of American officials and, by inference, of the US Government

Above letter set out!

134-6356-42

)(u)

(19)V

Roberto Vale Ares, 530 Southeast First St,

Hialeah, Fla.,

advised that he arrived in the US from Cuba on 31861. He indicate

that during the period of his employment by the Banco Finaciero,

Havana, Cuba, from 1959 to March, 1961, he began working in the

underground

against Castro with the Mire and became acquainted with

Castro with

the organization's leaders, Antonio Veciana and Manuel Rey. He related

that upon his arrival in the US, he dropped out of the Hi Re

later became a member of Comandos L (105-7222-1-1) In Miami. j

105-7222-1-1-71 p. 75

(46)V

On 33061, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami, advised

that he fled from Cuba recently because he was wanted by the Cuban

Government for involvement in counterrevolutionary activities. He

stated that. the MRP formerly was the most significant counterrevolutionary

organization in Cuba, but

support of it and Manuel Ray had declined

drastically since Ray fled to the US. :!

05-95461-9 po

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
-16-

---

##
SECRET

On 33061, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami j Fla.,

advised that he was

a member of the committee in exile of the 30th

of November Movement (105-92196)

He stated that this committee

had been meeting frequently with Jose Niro Cardona, the president of

the RC which had

been formed recently through the union of the FRI of

Manuel Antonio De Varona and the MRP headed by Manuel Ray. He

continued that the committee was leaving momentarily for NYc for

additional conferences with Cardona and members of the Re. i)

105-92196-2 p. 5

(6)

Evelio Duque Rodriquez, 627 9th Ave., NYC, advised that

shortly after his arrival in NYC on 31261 from Cuba, he joined the

MRP which was

headed by Manuel Ray. He exhibited his membership

card which had been issued in NY on 33161. He indicated that he

stopped attending MRP meetings in NY after about three or four functiong

because he had some misgivings about the political ideology of this

organization, particularly of Manuel Ray i

105-7538-1-1-11 p. 1,2

(14)L

NY 2865-S furnished a statement forwarded to him by Dr.

Guillermo Alonso Pujol, a Vice President of Cuba from 1948 to 1952.

Informant stated that the background given by Dr. Pujol was an answer

to Cuban exiles who were critical of his trip to Havana, Cuba, to visit

that the background give t

his son and other prisoners captured during the ill-fated Cuban

invasion of 41761. LU)

Under the caption, "Conference For Good Purpose," Dr. Pujol

mentioned that upon Dr. Miro Cardona's retum to NY from the invasion,

he and his entire Council, except Manuel Ray, met with a group of

parents, including PujOl 64) (21)

105-99200-96 p. 4

( 11) V

On 2762, Angel Orlando Berisiartu y Palop, a Cuban exile

in Miami, advised that he had been

member of the July 26 Revolutionary

Movement

under Fidel Castro. He claimed that he had been in frequent

contact and association with Camilo Cienfuegos (105-54536), Chief of

the Cuban Revolutionary Army, until the time of his disappearance.'',

(continued on next page)

SECRET!

ANW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
-17-

---

##
SECRET

(continued)

Additional liaison contacts included Castellanos; Juan

Adler De La Torre, member of Ray's MRP; and Dr. Maria Luisa Bonafonte,

friend of Ray's. (du)

Among the individuals listed by the Miami Office who were

known to that office and who might retum to Cuba and occupy positions

of authority was Armando bora, who, it was stated, might be at least

an assistant to Ray-(D(V)

64-4461-975 p. 1,3,4,7

(2132)v

A CIA report dated 4561 indicated that its source had heard

from one of his Cuban friends that the MRP was becoming less effective

inside Cuba, particularly since Manuel Ray had been in the US. This

friend, who

was familiar with MRP personalities and problems, stated

that in his opinion the MRP was degenerating into a pressure group in

the US and was becoming a head in the US without a body in Cuba.

97-4524-5

(3)v

On 4661, Eloy De Castroverde Y Covani (134-9281) was

interviewed but it was determined that he had no recent information

concerning Cuba or Cuban activities of any intelligence value.'.:

It was noted that he was a former business

partner of Manuel

Ray Rivero when the Hotel Havana Hilton was being built (date not given)

He regarded Ray as honest but, if not a conmunist, at least a very

radical leftist. lu;

134-9201-7

19K37)V

Jose M. Cabezon, president of the delegation in Spain of

resident dated

This report was made available to Cabezon

by Agustin Parradas Sicilia who interviewed Pardo under pretext as

a newspaperman.

A translation from Spanish of the report indicated

that prior to his

departure from Cuba, he informed friends within and

outside of Cuba of his decision to abandon the country and break with

Castro.

When asked if he had relations with the political sectors in

exile,

Pardo. stated that personally he maintained cordial relations with

Nanuel Ray and other exile leaders but politically, none. AU)

100-0896-4-2-12 p. 4

(3)V

SECRET

I NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
-19-

---

##
SECRET

An ONI report dated 41761 revealed that during an interview

with Jerry De Berly (134-10158) in Miami, he indicated that he was not

favorably impressed with most of the members of the recently

established Provisional Council. He declared that Manolo Ray was

unquestionably a communist for he had been too close to Fidel, Raoul

and Ches to be otherwise.

He also suspected Miro Cardona. According

to De Berly, those people who were backed by former Ambassador Bonsal

were a "frustrated lot" who formerly aspired to power in Cuba and who

currently comprised not a fifth column but a sixth column. (f)(L)

134-10158-3

(29) V

*Fidel and Raoul Castro; Che Guevara

On 42561, Dr. Pedro De Valerga, a Cuban businessman who

traveled between Cuba and the US (protect identity), advised that Manuel

Ray should not be included as part of a Cuban Government because he was

a Socialist in his thinking and policy.

He stated that Ray obviously

had convinced someone in authority that he had

a much larger following

in the underground than he actually had. u

113-7-210-3677 * U

119)1

On 42661, Horacio Aguirre,

Vice President and Director of

the "Diario Las Americas," a Miami daily Spanish language newspaper,

advised that he had recently received for publication in that newspaper

an article from Aureliano Sanchez Arango, who was actively involved in

counterrevolutionary matters against Fidel Castro.

This article was

highly critical of the RC of which Manuel Ray was

a member. Aguirre

refused to publish the article inasmuch as he felt it would serve no

useful purpose as far as the US Government or counterrevolutionary

efforts were concerned.

64-45716-225 p. 2

(2) V

REVEWED BY USEK TASK FORCE

ON b13.82 dol

A RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

brh

, NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
-20-

SECRET!

---

##
SECRET

(continued)

Ray also advised that Rogelio Cisneros, who was the chief

of clandestine activity of the MRP in Cuba and who was currently in

Miami, would be able to furnish additional information concerning

Murillo. i

105-95804-7 p. 2

(11)

On 5261, Dr. Ruben De Leon Garcia, Miami, Coordinator of

the Armed Forces of

the Republic of Cuba in Exile (2-1707) furnishec

a report in Spanish which set forth four separate groups of exiled

Cuban military personnel. Comprising one group were officers who

wished to keep the rank as leaders but who considered themselves as

separate from

the other groups.

Among those listed in this group was

Colonel Ramon Barquin Lopez and Lieutenant Colonels Manuel Varela

Castro and Jose E. Monteagudo Fleitas.

All were involved politically

with Manuel Ray,

head of

the MRP, which was considered a left-wing anti-

castro organization by Dr. De Leon.'i

Translation of report set out

2-1707-3 p. 12

(1)V

On 5461, Emilio Guede Fernandez (105-94082), 1220 W. 60th

sympathetic with the anti-Castro underground movement headed by Manuel

He continued that while in Madrid he communicated with Ray in

Miami and expressed a

desire to do something to

assist the MRP. He

subsequently was invited by Ray to come to Miami as he felt he could

use him in connection with anti-Castro propaganda. Guede went to

Miami on 1860-1-2. 41:

On 5961, Rigoberto Castellanos, Psl (protect identity)

Cuban exile who was

closely acquainted with Ray and who had knowledge

of the activities of persons associated with him, advised that Guede

joined the MRP after turning against Fidel Castro.

According to source,

Guede lived a short distance from Ray in Hialeah..

Add. info, according to the "Miami News," 32360.

105-94082-5 p. 1,3-5,7

(8)V

-22 -

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

the State Department advised that on 82261, Dr. Carlos

Prio Socorras

(109-430), former President of Cuba currently living ir

the US, met with a group of exiles, members of the Association of Cuban

Industrialists and Businessmen, in Mexico.

During the course of the

praised, Dr. Prio spoke harshly about Dr. Miro Cardona but hiohlys

Manuel "Tony" Varona and Manolo Ray. He stated that the US

was keeping Cardona as head of the CRC because he, unlike the other

two, had refrained from criticizing the US over the invasion fiasco.o,

109-430-2409 DECLASS PER DOS PER

(28)V

th EIR 1E1 DTD 1-6-98

1150-30-0

513-98JFK

A Newark report dated 82261 revealed that George R.

(105-63729) had told numerous individuals on Long Beach Island the

following: Damon was a close friend of Manuel Rey, whom he described

as the leader of the anti-Castro forces in the US.

Rey had made Damon

a colonel in the army that was attempting the overthrow of Castro.

Rey was currently in Miami and had commissioned Damon to purchase

motors for PT boats. Damon found motors he could obtain for 400. He

intended to charge Rey 750 plus 150 transportation charges.

Damon

stated that he made frequent trips to Cuba from Miami, presumably in

PT boats. He would smuggle people out of Cuba for a fee but would not

allow them to take anything

on board for fear of their concealing a

bomb. Damon further stated that he could obtain any type of weapon

in the Miami area presumably from an arms cache belonging to Rey.

(Source not clear) :"

105-63729-14 p. 1,5

(46)V

On 82961, Carlos Francisco Arazoza Forcade (134-10688)

advised that many people had broken with Fidel Castro who were

was Minister of Public Works

under Castro for a time and that Ray's

brother also had a good position in the Castro regime but was caught

mishandling funds and was either shot or committed suicide.

principal industries.

a movement in the US

against Castro and that Dr. Ricardo la Flor and

Dr. Guillermo Gonzalez Fraga, physicians at the

Thomason General

Hospital in El Paso, were Ray's adherents although they were anti-

Castro..u

134-10688-1 p. 7

(1929) V

-27- SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRETI

(continued)

source continued that reports from Cuba indicated that the

people continued to have faith even though they might have withdrawr

all their support in the national cadres in exile, including Ray!..i

105-4188-1-0-6 p. 3,4

(12)V

Francisco Javier Soler, Cuban political refugee in New

Orleans, La., who was until June, 1961, Director of the Quality

Standards Section of the Ministry of Commerce in Cuba (protect identity),

advised that, to his knowledge, activity among underground groups in

Cuba had ceased considerably. He stated that he had no direct

information but understood that there was some strength in either the

group headed by Manolo Ray or Tony Varona. #

The above information was submitted in a New Orleans airtel

dated 11162.

105-95461-47 p. 2

(24)V

CSNY 2822-S advised on 11562, that Jose M. Franco who

was in charge of the Sales Department of Azucarera Haina C. por A of

the Dominican Republic (DR), had been in NYC since 1162 contacting

numerous sugar brokers concerning future sales of Dominican sugar to

to a to at the cane to one the no it ate in the or,

that after thirty years of dictatorship, the DR would need a very

liberal and left of center government.

He indicated that the troubles

of the DR were due to "Yankee imperialism."

He continued that at

present the US had a government which thought along very liberal and

leftist lines.

Franco then stated that Manuel Ray Rivero had,

sent by the US to assist the reconstruction in the

DR. LEV)

109-12-211-1263

(16436)V

SECRET!

-30-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
'SECRET!

On 72562, Piero Fedeli,

who had recently left Cuba,

reported that Manuel

Ray, despite his leftist thinking, and Jose

Miro Cardona were the most highly respected Cuban exile leaders

according to the rebel organizations in Cuba.

105-95461-115 p. B,4

(11)V

235

On 8362, Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez

advised that he and many other Cubans had a

very poor opinion of several Cuban exile leaders, including Manuel

Ray Rivero, because they were once with the castro regime and

probably would have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity

for them to advance politically and financially. Hernandez classified

Ray as probably the most

ambitious of any and as anti-American as any

of the exiled leaders. "'

105-3456-1-1-1 p. 7

(34)V

Noel Gonzalez Mantici (105-6815-1-1), a Cuban alien in Miami,

considered himself a close friend of Manuel Ray, who was formerly

a member of the anti-Castro CRC in Miami. (Source not clear,

probably N1 776-5, 81062)(98 21)

105-6815-1-1-1 p. 4

(14)

A CIA report dated 82262 indicated that Manuel Ray, former

CIA INFO (4) REMAINS

CLASSIFHED PER THER

105-95461-125

(11)4

3190-1-2

EP6850

LTR.

Xa (724, 326)

Harrest a in Sam Jun noring in to an - t ave need e

Manolo Ray.

105-1831-1-1-8 p. 3

(25)V

SI 105-1831-1-1-5

(25)V

-36-

, NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
SECRET!

---

##
SECRET

13285.

On 1062-1-0,

Jorge Estiva was interviewed at 1878 W.

Flagler St.

Miami, which address had been the hagrs. of the

Movimiento Recuperacion Revo lucionaria Cubano (Cubar

Revolutionary

Recovery Movement) (MRRC) (105-8646-1-0) Estiva advised that the

MRRC had been dissolved in mid-September, 1962, and that most of the

over the above hdars.

Source stated that JURE was organized in

Puerto Rico by the well-known anti-Castro Cuban, Manuel Ray, and

included members from five different anti-Castro groups!.:;

105-8646-1-0-15

(12)V

On 1162-1-0, PSI Jeronimo Esteve, Jr. (protect identity)

advised that he had known Gonzalo Dean Suarez (105-4953-1-1) personally

was currently regarded as being very anti-Castro and pro-American.

At one time, he was considered to be a rollower of Manolo Ray, ?

cuban exile residing in Puerto Rico and presently employed by the

Puerto Rican Planning Board, but was not known to currently favor Ray

105-4953-1-1-2 р. 2

(27)L

On 1662-1-0, Alberto Gutierrez De La Solana, NY, advised

that he was associated with a new anti-Castro organization known as

"Alpha 66" (105-2098-1-1). He related that there had been many rumors

that Engineer Manuel Ray was one of the leaders of that group but

that he had thoroughly checked this rumor and found it to be untrue.

checked this

He indicated that if Ray had been connected with the organization in

any way, he would have inmediately severed his relationship. w

105-X9868-12-0 p. 2

(12425)V

и)

pooracion to to are chat one a o per a 405-11953)

began working there on 11162.

At that time he listed as an employment

reference Manolo Ray, Puerto Rican Planning Board, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

105-4953-1-1-5 p. 1

(27)

-37-

SECRET

, NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

A CIA report dated 12363 revealed that Angel Miolan,

chairman of the Partido Revolucionario Dominicano (PRD - Dominican

Revolutionary Party, had been approached by JURE, headed by Manuel

Ray RIvero

to obtain permission from the PRD to

establish JURE

representation in the Dominican Republic' (p U

109-12-1705-21-1

(1636)1

By letter dated 21563 at Miami, Robert H. Hoadley (134-9231)

offered to assist the Bureau on the Cuban

and Latin American situation.

He praised the Bureau but mentioned

several things he could not under-

"How can you believe that Mr. Miro Cardona is a real

anti-communist? - I can mention others' names as Manuel Ray, Justo

Carrillo, Felipe Pazos, etc."

He also set out references who could

verify his good mental condition. "

It was noted that he was formerly contacted as a PSI in

Miami but was dropped when his army record, which showed a discharge

for psychoneurosis,

became known.

It was further noted that Hoadles

should be contacted but that he should not be utilized as a source..

134-9231-8

( 19)V

A CIA report dated 22763 concerning Jose Julian Perez Vidal

(105-63791), who arrived in Miami from Cuba on 11863 aboard the Rec

Cross flight, named Manuel Ray Rivero, current head of JURE and a very

active leader of the revolution against castro, among the men with the

greater possibilities for overthrowing the Castro regime.

d IA INFO REMAINS CLASSIFIED

IN IS 1, 4 PER THEIR 3190-1-7 LTR.

105-63791-25

БРЫВТА (1376) 1141-2-4

(3,33)V

CIA reported that Manuel Artime (105-85440) had a scheduled

appointment on 3963 in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with Governor Luis

Munoz Marin. He intended to discuss the Cuban situation, the

Situation, and Manuel Ray, head of JURE, and hoped to receive some

type of anti-Castro support. Artime indicated that it was his under-

standing that at present there was a personal rift between Munoz and

Ray and that this was an opportune

time to make the trip to puerto

Rico

105-85440-10

(4)V

-40-

*SCRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

On 53163, PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) stated

that there had been a strong rumor among Cuban exiles that Gutierrez

(surys, the military leader of the Second National Front of Escambray

attempting to work out

one a parat a patt one in then at aband or rune thister

PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) reported that on

6463 he met with Gutierrez Menoyo in NY at which time he learned

that Gutierrez had been spending much time with JURE members in an

effort to reach some type of agreement but that as of 6463, no

agreement had been made.

According to source, Gutierrez had

not

personally spoken with "Manolo" Ray when the latter was in Ny during

the weekend of 6163 but Ray would retum to Ny on the weekend of

no kon sing

6863 and he, Gutierrez, might meet with him then d

105-2098-1-1-297 p. 3,4

(12426)V

Rafael Valdes, PSI under development (protect identity)

advised that on 61463

he conversed with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during

which time he learned that there had been no union of the Second

National Front of Escambray (SNFE) - Alpha 66 (105-2098-1-1) with JURE.

Gutierrez stated that there were many difficulties to overcome before

any union could be made with JURE, which was headed by Manuel "Mano10"

Ray. Informant related that Gutierrez spoke very bitterly concerning

Ray and stated that Ray wanted only to get all anti-Castro organizations

under the control of sure. Canu

It was noted that Gutierrez was the Military Chief of SNFE.

105-2098-1-1-315 p. 1a,3,4

(12,26)

On 61463, Manuel Artime Buesa, 6151 Southwest 16th Terrace,

that he was formerly

a doctor and Rebel Army

Mi ander in cuba and was currently head of the Movimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR) (97-4133)

He related that recently he had been

conferring with several anti-Castro organizations in regard to forming

a coordination of military efforts against Cuba. He stated that he

refused to meet with such left-wing organizations as those of Manuel

Ray aná Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo whom he considered extremists and

demagogues. i

97-4133-63 p. -2

(2)v

-44-

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Ray presided over MRP meeting at home of

purpose.

(Juan Agiular, protect identity,

1461)

Ray reportedly slipped in and out of Cuba

underground there.

respected by cuban exiles in Us. Rufo

Lonence, and Ricardo lorin, termer Cuban

Ambassador, closely associated with MRP

leadership. (Ni 639-5, January, 1961) GA(U1)

Ray was member of Castro's organization

in underground in Havana, Cuba, during

1957-1958; well experienced in sabotage

and underground activities. (Hugo

Gonzalez Lajonchere

inderground, 16673 working with FRD

И)

Third in series of articles entitled,

"Countdown for Castro," by Joseph Martin

and Phil Santora discussed anti-Castro

movements and dedicated cold-blooded

opportunists thirsting for power.

Article set out brief

biographical sketch

of Ray; his desire for "Fidelism without

Fidel;" the names of his allies; his

possible leftist leanings; his acceptance

by the US Government; and his dispassionate

reference to his brother.

Ray was head of MRP.

(Investigator

ub A

18)V

Counter-Revolutionary Organizations."

(Date of mail 12361)(84 FENS FESNSTe24426) 1693

Majority of most important front groups

such as Miri headed by Ray led either by

known communists or purely political

opportunists.

Ray, known communist,

openly declared that only thing wrong

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2713 р. 11,12

(16)v

- "NY Daily News"

11061

Document enclosed

2693 enc1. p. 3

( 16)V

2748

(45) V

(continued on next page).

-46-

SECRET

| NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECh-r

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

the thought that Ray was a communist or

wanted to retain communist order of

government in Cuba but while Ray was

leftist other MRP Executive Committee

members were rightists; Ray leading

executive committee member.

(Armando

vora, Miami, Fla. 31461):

Former Minister of Public Works in Cuba;

currently ike leader; set forth his

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

In early April, 1961 invasion of Cuba

Provisional

President at cuca, casted anti-castro

camp in Guatemala with

Ray ordered underground.

in Cuba to assist

and cooperate with any invasion force

which might land in Cuba.

received

ht Dama ton whom Ernes 01615

Betancourt, MRP member, who reportedly

received information from Ray) (P)*

Ernesto Betancourt of MRP in Washington, DC,

1n.

almost nightly telephonic contact

with Ray prior

to April,

1961 Cuban

invasion. (WF-1161-S)

All Cuban exiles for unity

against

Castro but unity being prevented by

leaders of various factions,

including

hamiro Loys, confidential source

(protect identity ate not given))

Since failure of invasion on 41761,

Ray planned to leave FRD as MR blamed

(Armando Lora,

Miami, Fla.,

member

of NRP Executive

Board, 53101) 1:

Ray addressed student group at Harvard

University on 5301 recommending

continuance of revolution against Castro

and was well received. (Gustavo De Aragon,

former Cuban Consul at Boston, Mass.,

Cuban Consulate)

-48-

,773

28)v

2960

(28) v

885

17V

847

17)

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 65994 Docid:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Prior to invasion of Cuba on 41761

there was much discontent among pilots

of invasion force over insistence that

Ray be accepted as a member of the RC.

Pilots understood Ray was forced on

Council by US State Department.

Practically all Cuban exiles agreed

Ray must be dropped from Council.

Matias Farias, who participated in

recent Cuban invasion, 5561) 111

Informant in close contact with Ray.

Prior to 41701 Cuban invasion, Raj

gainst bloodshed and violence but

currently sought violent overthrow

of Castro.

Ray had practically given

up on Us

assistance and would seek

support in Latin America.

contemplated residing in

Costa Rica

where he would wage a campaign against

Cuban Government.

Supposed to meet

in Florida during week of 7961

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2854

(17)

2894

(17)V

Meeting at home of Dr. Guillermo

Alonso Pujol, former Vice President

of Cuba, during weekend of 71561

scheduled to be attended by Ray and

other leaders of anti-Castro organi-

zations for purpose of uniting to

overthrow Castro. (NY 2865-S)()(U)

Ray denounced FRU and planned

further association with it.

(MM 639-S, 52561)

Claimed US Government forced his ouster

as head of MRP; resigned from MRP.

Mia, newspapers (unidentified), mid

Some MRP members claimed the organi-

tat organis to ta want an taimed

should mutually decide on replacement

rather than the Board naming

# NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
2910 pr 1,9

(36)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

---

##
SECRET

(continued)

(105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Prior to August, 1961, Ray head of MRP.

MRP considered

largest

and

most significant

in underground

in Cuba. (No source)

Suspended from MRP membership.

(Ignacio

Mendoza De La Torre, Miami Beach,

Fla.,

72861) 12

Resigned from MRP.

(Mendoza, supra,

September, 1961)

MRP tom by strife over status of Ray.

Ray would be maintained in advisory

capacity by MRP and would not have any

absolute power to act for the organization

as previously.

(Numerous informants

(identified)) (Date of mail 10361)

it!!

MRP broken into 2 factions in Puerto

Rico: the larger group under one

"Gelabert" (phonetic), the smaller group

under Ray. Ray employed by Commonwealth

of Puerto Rico's Planning Commission.

MRP lost many members due to "socialistic"

policy of Ray. (PSI Juan Fernando

Aguilar Leon andor PSI (UD) Roberto

Bernardo Roca Rosillo (protect identities)

(Date of mail 2461-1-1)

Former

head of MRP in Miami,

currently

in Puerto Rico. (No source, date of mail

1962)

Ray was

associate of Armando Pessino,

industrialist who stated he backed

Castro because of a

need for increased

social benefits for cuban workers.

(Bureau Agent obtained information on

31562)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

'PAGE NUMBER

2959 P. 5.

(1736)v

2940

(17)V

2983

(28) 1

047 P. 1

17)v

3109

(17)

(continued on next page)

- 50-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Ray employed by US Government in the

Alliance for Progress program; formerly

headed the MRP; considered by

of Cuban exiles

as anything from outright

communist to a "leftist" in his thinking

which resulted in MRP being thought of

as extremely liberal.

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3183 P: 19,20

(17)V

3179 po 1,2

(28)V

from Washington, D.C., claiming he was

granted permission to form a military

group in Puerto Rico to attack Cuba, help

consisting of

war materials and

financial assistance. Other Cuban exile

leaders in Puerto Rico distrustful of

Manolo Ray on basis of his political

philosophy and decided they must be in

position to attack Cuba the same time as

Ray but not under his leadership. Exiles

felt this important lest Ray's groups

would be successful and he subsequently

would claim he liberated Cuba:

(Roberto Roca Rosillo, subject of

Bufile 105-99003)

Dr. Ernesto Aragon

Y

Godoy ,

233 E. 69th

St., NYC, who was secretary to Dr. Jose

Miro Cardona, President of CRC, advisec

he and Cardona were informed on 52662

by MRP in Havana that they should have

5 coordinators instead of one.

Suggested were Fernandez Nuevo, Miami;

Joaquin Godoy, Miami; Andres Valdespino,

NYC; Ray of San Juan; and unidentified

individual.

Aragon

stated that Nuevo,

Godoy and Valdespino were against Ray,

Aragon saw small chance of Ray bringing

together a following within MRP. WU

On 52862, Aragon conversed with AG

regarding newspaper article relative to

replacement of Cardona with Ray:

Aragon

said Ray would never have anything to do

with CRC. AG said,

"we'II see" but left

in CRC.

impress ton, that Ray would have no say

- 51-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
(continued on next page)

SECRET

---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

"Miami Herald" (date not given) reported

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3275 p. 1,3,15

(18)

to State Department, above report

unfounded.

Appointed to co-ordinating committee

of MRP in Exile but refused appointment

Joaquin Godoy, 133 San Sebastian,

Coral Gables, Fla., 62062) (41)

Ray had practically no following in

Puerto Rico or US and Cuban exiles

considered him left of center.

Ray not

a communist but advocated most of ideas

practiced by Castro.

Mariano Roca

i St, protect identity, 2711-56-6)

said that all "Popular"

political

factions outside Cuba would be accomodated

in a new JURE in an effort to restore

splintered movement into an effective

working organization; that Movement would

be financed almost entirely by Cubans.

("San Juan Star," 72462)

Ray, Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE)

leader and consultant for Puerto Ri Co

Planning Board, would head group of

underground personnel expected at

gathering of Cuban exiles in Ponce,

Puerto Rico on September 15 and 16, 1962,

to plot overthrow of Fidel Castro.

("San Juan Star" 9462)

9462 article was result of efforts

by Ray, who was using current Cuban

crisis

to attempt to regain political

prestige he once held among Cuban exiles.

Cuban exiles not expected to attend

meeting as they had

no confidence in Ray

or his

ideas .

protect identity, 11462: derb, 51,

Esteve,

94625JX PSI, protect identity,

И)

3284 encl. p. 1-3:

(28)V

(continued on next page)

-52- SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Regarding same article, the prediction

that 113 Cubans expected to attend

meeting was strictly propaganda by Ray.

Meeting expected to fail but Ray. and

followers would continue efforts to

win exiles by trickery and false

propaganda, eitorts. veronimo Esteve,

Jr., supra) (U)

Junta Revolucionaria met in Rio Canas,

Puerto Rico, during September, 1962,

and mapped out strategy to throw

Russians and Fidel Castro out of Cuba;

Ray chosen by Junta as one of the leaders

of a nine-man directorate.

Between

92462 and 10662, Miro

Cardona informed State Department he

was ready and willing to unite with any

Cuban organization dedicated to overthrow

of current Cuban regime except Ray's

forces or any former criminals.

concerned over pressure by State

Department to readmit Ray into the

sto the

coming from Governor Luis Munoz Marin of

statements made by State Department,

Cardona believed State might pressure

him to join forces with Ray. CIA had no

use for Ray who would never be read-

mitted to the consejo if up to them.

(Dr. Ernesto Aragon Godoy

233 E. 69th

St., NYC, delegate of CRC)

'Counterrevolutionary Handbook,

lated 1062-1-0, compiled by CIA

contained survey of anti-Castro

organizations.

Numerous information

set out regarding Ray's connection

ub A "The Miami Herald

29)V 91961

3332 p. 2-

,18)V

Copy of handbook enclosed

3387 encl. P. 1,6,14,19,

(7314-18-28367, 50,55,98

CIA INFO IN LASTI

REMAINS GASSILLO

(continued on next page)

-53-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
CECRET

---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Ray stated that 40 was total membership

of JURE in Puerto Rico; presided over

JURe meeting in Santurce, Puerto Rico,

in early January; claimed JURE had 3,000

in bank.

i to 2200, proton 0 , 4763-1-9)

Ray considered by Cuban exiles in

Miami as being anything from a communist

to an extremely radical nationalist.

Exiles believed he would only replace

government officials with his personal

friends but would not change form of

government if Castro were overthrown

by him.

Since Ray was so highly

controversial and discredited by exiles,

his organization might never be

acceptable to them.

Exiles complained

that Ray received backing from Governor

Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico; was

favorably written about by US press;

and apparently was well considered

by US State Department. LON 639-S,

3710-21-6 U1)

Around early March, 1903, Dr. Jose

complared to Foremer senator Santiago

Rey Pernas that US State Department

instructed him to try to cooperate

nim. Miro expressed disgust support

stated it was time for organizations

like Ray's to form liaisons with Miro

for purpose of being able to plan

action should US support of Ray become

pronounced. (CIA) A (U)

Jose Ruiz-Williams

Alfert,

second in

command of heavy artillery during April,

1961 invasion, contacted Ray in Puerto

Rico in connection with uniting Cuban

exiles. ("The Miami News," 51063)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

1184 p. 26,27

15712

35751;3

-54-

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Same information as serial 3575 according to

"The Miami Herald," 51163

3570,

(18)1

MRP, Second Front of Escambray, Alpha

66, 30th of November and Frente Anti-

3585 p.-7

(45)1

Comunista de Liberacion agreed to

unite in attempt to overthrow Castro.

JURE, headed by Ray, approached group

admission but

decision not reached as

JURE regarded as being considerably to

left of other organizations. (Joaquin

Godoy, in charge of Foreign Affairs

and Public Relations of MRP, May 16 and

19, 1963) 11:

As of 52763, Ray had not signed with

the Cuban Committee of Liberation, a

3604 p. 6

(18)v

unity group of exile organizations.

(MM- 639-S)

И)

Ray

was former Minister of Public

Works under Castro; deposed as Cuban

3583г

head of MRP: currently believed to be

living in Puerto Rico. (CIA rpt.

52863)

U)

Edwin Martin,

Assistant Secretary of

State for Latin American Altairs,

mentioned, in a speech, 5 exile

8553-3-5;3

organizations, including JURE headed

by Ray, as only organizations with

clandestine assets. JURE believed

by exiles to be group most favored by

US Government as declarations of Ray

were appearing in the press and his

prominence being

pushed by Governor

Lui S

(Munoz) Marin of Puerto Rico and

President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela,

both of whom had excellent contacts

in Washington. (CIA rpt. 53063) 674)

i ter soos continued on next page)

CIA INFO IN AS 45 REMANS

CLASSIFIED PER THEIR 3190-1-2

LTR.

5866JAGe *24 26) 4191

-55-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Ray aware of widespread discontent with

economic and ideological policy of

Castro government but stated that now

was not the time to take any serious

overt action.

hat Fidel Castro realized people's

liscontent with Raul Castro and Ernest

"Che" Guevara and intended to correct

situation before 1160 but this was

doubted.

(sergio sanjenis Cabarrocas,

prominent revolutionary in undergroun

prior to fall of Batista, 3541-10-1

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

37 p.

15V

(14)V

Minister of Public Works prior to

reorganization) whom he considered one

of the Cabinet's best men. Baralt) CS

stated that Ray lost Cabinet position

because he protested treatment of

Major Hubert Matos (arrested in Cuba

on charges of treason).

(NY 2494-S)(5)

Same information as above.

Same information as above according

tead or constructita in an avaron pent

Article captioned, "Pro-Red Takes Over

Cuba's Bank" set out Cuban Cabinet

changes.

Ray made president of army's

Superior Institute of Science and

Technology, an

reportedly had been trying to leave

Castro's official family.

Same information as above according to

CIA.

CIA

information as above according to

CIA INFO IN LAST ZIPS

REMAINS GHASSIFIED FER

THE 112 3090-1-2 UR.

- 0211,326)

, NW 9488-65-9t Id:7187-32-30
-60-

Sub A "NY Times" 2759-1-1

(1535)V

892

(45)

Sub A "New York Herald

(15)v Tribune" 2759-1-1

.058, p..

1435)V

989

( 14)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

---

##
SECRET

(continued)

(109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Herbert Matthews of "New York Times"

stated that the "young crowd" considered

Ray a moderate who did his best to apply

orthodox theories, methods and practice

to a dynamically

revolutionary situation..

(NY 2494-S*)) (5)

Raul Chibas and Ray allies in anti-Castro

movement. Ray replaced by Osmani

and that to at your an -castro.

Ray may have recently taken asylum ir

an embassy in Havana. Data concerning

movement would possibly be available when

Chibas and Ray arrived in US. (Orlando

Alvarez Barquin,

Airlines, 2360-7-7) i

Same information as above.

Same information as above according to

State Department. (U)

Ray's MRP gaining in strength and

effective Meanse of prestin

he enjoyed as

luring Batista period and as competen

administrator while in Ministry of

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

1005 p.

104

2050 p: 1-3,

15)v

2053v

022 Ro

14)1

2311 p.

(27)6

4312

(27)V

(continued on next page)

-61-

SECRET.

, NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Many in Cuba disappointed that US

Government would permit Ray to be

leader of provisional government of

Cuba.

Ray's father was known communist.

Ray

very friendly with Castro while Ray

Minister of Public Works. Anti-Castro

underground camps in Cuba near rebellion

when Ray's position in contemplated

new government announced.

Mrs. Sherlock

Hackley, 760 Park Avenue, NYC, 41761Y

Ray prominent

member. of Revolutionary

Council in Miami.

(Source not clear;

date of mail 42861)

Ray invited to speak before Cooperative

Forum, Room 401, Union station,

tentatively scheduled

for 6761

Washington or 61461; given privilege

of

selecting his own audience.

Ray attended above meeting on 6761

during which he held question and answer

session. Gave impression to those in

attendance that he was one of few

Cubans possessing leadership ability

Cuban military field. (WF (1101-5)

Puerto Rican Governor Luis Munoz Marin

and

Dr. Ramon Suarez, eminent Puerto Rican

physician, extremely interested in frank

appraisal

of attitude of kay, recently

denounced leader of MRP who

had received

considerable adverse publicity. Ray was

an engineer, well educated, a good

organizer, quite determined, anti-

American, dangerously to the left, and

unclear on certain vital matters. Ray

dropped from MRP leadership because of

leaders' dissatisfaction with his

ambiguous statements and fear that

mould have "fidelismo sin Fidel" (e N)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2891

( 15)V

15v

3036

(28)

3088

(28)V

(15) 8-2

. ..

(continued on next page)

-62-

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

(Fidelism without Fidel). In latter

July, 1961, Governor Munoz refused to

Ray politically but offered

assistance in obtaining him an

engineering position.

Ray apparently

undetermined, allegedly having

received attractive offer from

someone in US with Latin American

interests. Ray appeared to be politically

dead as a Cuban leader. (Dr. Agustin

Ca test-luba, protect identity, 6601) (1)

Castellanos Gonzalez,

under development

Dr. Miguel Buch among controversial

Cuban doctors in US.

He belonged to

Ray's group; was not known to have

3531 p. 1

attacked communism or Castro publicly.

Identity, 1862)

(Ps1 Agustin Castellanos,

protect

Jorge Barroso, head of Sugar Institute

in Cuba during Batista regime, advised

35353, 2

CSNY 2822-S on 2162 that Governor

Luis Munoz Marin* regretted recommendin

Ray for membership as he lacked leadershi

qualities. ()(U)

Ray approached

009

(fnu), former Chief of G-2 in Camaguey,

3511-15-15

latos aroup in exile

ats soon in ten ear the meet or

of followers of Matos should Cuban Govem-

ment release some 2,000 politio-nothing

prisoners in exchange for a

against-Castro" policy when Castro started

campaign against Cuban communists which

would retum 26 of July Movement to power.

(OXA гpt, 31483) (8(u)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(continued on next page)

*of Puerto Rico

-63-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET:

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE

64-330-210-1063

1109

(5)

105-86020-758

105-89923-134

152

155

164

187

-A "NY Herald Tribune" 1961

-A "Sunday Visitor" 51461

-A "The Worker" 1461-1-1

-A "NY World Telegram" 22362

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(5)v

(5v

(5)V

(5):

(5)

(5)*

(22)V

(5)V

(22)V

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

out in the main file.

Differences in source will be noted on the

search slip.

!

- 65-

SECRET

A NWV 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2015-6-5

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10291-10267

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 97-4546-23

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act ol

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-03-2021

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 1964-03-27

PAGES:

68

SUBJECTS :

MR, CORRELATION SUMMARY, SEE REFERENCES, AKA,

BKG, EMP, ASSOC, AFFIL, CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ACA,

TESUR

DOCUMENT TYPE :

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST RE VIEW:

1998-06-11

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
33

---

##
SECRETI

On 52659, WF 1133-S* learned that Cuban Economic Attache (S

Gonzalo de la Pezuela and Roberto Acosta, Vice President in charge

of the Cuban National Commission for Development, had received

instructions from Cuba to immediately make arrangements at the Export

Import Bank,

Washington, D. C., for a loan of "several million

dollars" for Cuba. The money

was to be used for the purchase of

unidentified equipment for Cuba.

According to the source,

the

request for this loan

nad the approval of several Cuban officials,

including Manuel Ray (A

Embassy of Cuba, Washington, D. C., is the subject of

62-6940-60-2(4)

62-60269-7653-19-6V

2)V

On 71560, Angel Sebastian Ros Escala advised that he came

to the US on 51960 j

He stated that he had worked for the July 26

Movement in the underground in Havana until November or December,

when he went into the Sierra Maestra Mountains of Cuba. He

remained there until Batista collapsed. While in Havana, he worked

with Manolo Ray, an action group leader. 4)

Ros continued that around March, 1959, he and

several

others organized the Movimiento De Recuperacion Revolucionario (MRR)

(97-4133)

as an underground anti-Castro organization.

He indicated

that he became general coordinator of the MRR and that his work

consisted of organizing, recruiting and planning to fight against

Castro. He related that he also worked for three or four months

(dates

not given) for Manolo Ray, the anticommunist head of the public

works. When Ray was

arrested around November, 1959, Ros resigned his

position in the same department. Ray was succeeded by Osmani

Cienfuegos."

97-4133-20

(21)4

An ONI

Havana, report dated 11259 revealed that Huber

Matos (105-82086) had decided to remain in Camaguey rather than flee

to the States inasmuch as he might be able to do more in ridding the

Revolutionary Group of communism.

Source stated that Matos' awareness

of the communistic influence

in the Government was alerted by Manola

Ray, Minister of Public Works.

Source further stated that Ray and t

REVIEWED BY ERATUFK TASK FORCE

(continued on next page)

ON

6 - 13-97 073RTP

RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

CECRET

I TOTAL DENIAL

-4-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued)

It was noted in this telegram that "Diego", as a leader in

che Havana underground during the Batista period, might have beer

close to kay and might actually be working for him at present.

An 1760-1-0

cuban Minister, of Public Works, was a member of the underground ir

Cuba.

this informant advised that Ray was head of the

105-92195-6 p. B, 1,3

(6) 204

SI par 3

105-92195-5 p. 11

(23)

On 1760-1-0 WF 11617s named several individuals who had

either joined or exhibited interest in joining the anti-Castro

organization called the Resistencia Civica (97-4481).

Among these

was Raul Chi Das,

former head of the cuban Railroads who was believed

by the informant to be currently residing in NYC.

This informant advised that Chibas was in contact with the

Rebel underground in Cuba, particularly with Manuel Ray.

Informant

continued that through the association of Chibas and Ray, the Resistencia

Civica in the US was apprised of the current political and economic

situation in cuba and of the continuing unrest of the Cuban people Ay

97-4481-1 p. 2

(3)1

n 1800-1-0

y the FRD 105-87912) had nearly complete that oras being traine

No action would be taken until

after US elections on 11860 to avoid the matter becoming an election

issue; however, it would be launched before the new President took

office.in order that there would be no criticism against the new

President.

(U)

(continued on next page)

-8_SORED

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECHET

(continued)

The above source and the contingent that he accompanied to the US

planned to side with the MRP faction since they appeared to have

received some sort of US aid and sanction in their joint efforts.

It was their plan to contact Ray personally upon their release from

i at it ten er ar

the detention facility at Mc Allen in an effort to consolidate all

such opposition groups in a united front to combat castro. i u)

105-94715-1 p. 0

(8)1

Any C: 5 6. 10-294

residing in Miami and

zations, (protect identity) advised that Hector Garcia Soto had indicated

Protect 40 5Y, Ana Rosa Guard at ang Cast a on an)

around February, 1961, that he was secretly anti-Castro and was working

for Manolo Ray in the

MRP.

Garcia stated that he still believed in

the governmental reforms Castro put into effect and believed in

Castro's system of government but did not agree with communism and

the influence it had in the Cuban Government. (4)

105-80787-376

. p. 8,10

(22)1*

On 2261, Spencer Meredith, Apt. 17, Vanta Courts, So W.

Manolo Rey and Raul Chibas of the MRP. )

105-97525-1

(45)K

On 2661, Rufo Lopez Fresquet (64-44765), 2118 12th Ave.

Nest, Bradenton, Fla., former President of the Cuban National Bank,

advised that the MRP did not have an organization in the US but that

there were

several members of the organization in the US and Puerto

Rico in éxile.

Among those he named was Manuel Ray (or Rey), Miami,

Fla., phone TU 8-0978. 1"1

64-44765-17

(21,45)V

SECRET

-12-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

By letter dated 31661 at Miami, Howard Davis, 450 s. W.

4th St., Miami, MM 639-S, (134-6356) advised President John F. Kennedy

of the

current

Cuban situation.

Concerning Manuel Ray, he stated that

during

meetings the previous week in NY and Washington,

Ray actively

participated in the future destiny of cuba. He also stated that

Ray was an avowed enemy of the US and that

he had heard Ray discussing

his program with other Cubans.

Ray advocated that properties confiscated

from American citizens and corporations were not to be returned to

their rightful owners; that no independence be given to the judicial

power; that special Revolutionary Tribunals be kept functioning; and

that Cuba

honor Castro's commercial, cultural and political treaties

with Russia; Red China and their satellites in order to block American

influence in the Republic.

Informant called attention to the fact that while the

youth of Cuba fought against the brutal tyranny of international

communism, Cuban "leaders" such as Ray and others in the US were

egoistically campaigning for the Presidency, the several Ministries

and bureaucratic positions, publicly claiming that they had the

LAbove letter set out!

134-6356-42

(19)V

Roberto Vale Ares, 530 Southeast First St., Hialeah, Fla.,

advised that he arrived in the US from Cuba on 31861.

He indicated

that during the period of his employment by the Banco Finaciero,

Havana, Cuba, from 1959 to March, 1961, he began working in the

underground against Castro with the MRP and became acquainted with

the organization's leaders, Antonio Veciana and Manuel key....

He related

that upon his arrival in the US, he dropped out of the MRP but

later became a member of Comandos L (105-7222-1-1) in Miami.'

105-7222-1-1-71 p. 75

(46)V

On 33061, Roberto Fabian

Armand Borrego, Miami, advised

that he fled from Cuba recently because he was wanted by the Cuban

Government for involvement in counterrevolutionary activities.

stated that. the MRP formerly was the most significant counterrevolutionary

organization in Cuba, but support of it and Manuel Ray had declined

drastically since Ray fled to the US.

105-95461-9 p. 2

( 11)V

SECRET!

-16-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

On 33061, Roberto Fabian Armand Borrego, Miami fla.,

advised that he was a

member of the committee in exile of the 30th

of November Movement (105-92196)

He stated that this committee

had been meeting frequently with

Jose Miro Cardona, the president of

the RC which had been formed recently through the union of the FR of

Manuel Antonio De Varona and the MRP headed by Manuel Ray. He

continued that the committee was leaving momentarily for NYC for

additional conferences with Cardona and members of the Re.?)

105-92196-2 p. 5

(6)v

Evelio Duque Rodriquez, 627 9th Ave., NYC, advised that

shortly after his arrival in NYC on 31261 from Cuba, he joined the

MRP which was headed by Manuel Ray. He exhibited his membership

card which had been issued in NY on 33161.

He indicated that he

stopped attending MRP meetings in NY after about three or four functiong

because he had some misgivings about the political ideology of this

organization, particularly of Manuel Ray. a1!

105-7538-1-1-11 p. 1,2

(14)V

NY 2865-S furnished a statement forwarded to him by Dr.

Guillermo Alonso Pujol, a Vice President of Cuba from 1948 to 1952.

Informant stated that the background given by Dr. Pujol was an answer

to Cuban exiles who were critical of his trip to Havana, Cuba, to visit

his son and other prisoners captured during the ill-fated Cuban

invasion of 41761. LU)

Under the caption, "Conference For Good Purpose," Dr. Pujol

mentioned that upon Dr. Miro Cardona's retum to NY from the invasion,

he and his entire Council

, except Manuel Ray, met with a group of

parents, including Pujol. I

> (2)

105-99200-96 p. 4

(11)V

on 2762, Angel Orlando Berisiartu y Palop, a Cuban exile

in Miami, advised that he had been a member of the July 26 Revolutionary

Movement

under Fidel Castro. He claimed that he had been in frequent

contact and association with Camilo Cienfuegos (105-54536), Chief of

the Cuban Revolutionary Army, until the time of his disappearance. i

(continued on next page)

SECRET

-17-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued)

Additional liaison contacts included Castellanos; Juan

Adler De La Torre, member of Ray's MRP; and Dr. Maria Luisa

Bonafonte,

friend of Ray's (d

Among the individuals listed by the Miami Office who were

known to that office and who might retum to Cuba and occupy positions

of authority

was Armando bora, who, it was stated, might be at least

an assistant to Ray (Cy

(U)

64-4461-975 p. 1,3,4,7

(2432)V

from one of his Cuban friends that the MRP was becoming less effective

of h Is

A CIA report dated 4561 indicated that its source had heard

inside

Cuba, particularly since Manuel Ray had been in the US. This

friend, who

was familiar with MRP personalities and problems, stated

that in his opinion the MRP was degenerating into a pressure group in

the US and was becoming a head in the US

without a body in Cuba. (U)

97-4524-5

(3)1

On 4661, Eloy De Castroverde Y Covani (134-9281) was

interviewed but it was determined that he had no recent information

concerning Cuba or Cuban activities of any intelligence value.i:

It was noted that he was a former business partner of Manuel

Ray Rivero when the Hotel Havana Hilton was being built (date not given)

He regarded Ray as honest but, if not a communist, at least a very

radical leftist. us

134-9281-7

(191,37)V

Jose M. Cabezon, president of the delegation in spain of

the FRD, furnished a copy

of a report dated 41161 concerning Jose

Pardo Llada (100-0896-4-2). This report was made available to Cabezon

by Agustin Parradas Sicilia who interviewed Pardo under pretext as

a newspaperman.

A translation from Spanish of the report indicated

that prior to his departure from Cuba, he informed friends within and

outside of Cuba of his decision to abandon

the country and break with

Castro.

When asked if he had relations with the political sectors in

exile, Pardo stated that personally he maintained cordial relations with

Manuel Ray and other exile leaders but politically, none du

100-0896-4-2-12 p. 4

(3)V

SECRET

-19-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

An ONI report dated 41761 revealed that during an interview

with Jerry De Berly (134-10158) in Miami, he indicated that he was not

favorably impressed with most of the members of the recently

established Provisional Council. He declared that Manolo Ray

unquestionably a communist for he had been too close to Fidel, Raoul

and Che* to be otherwise. He also suspected Miro Cardona.

According

to De Berly, those people who were backed by former Ambassador Bonsal

were a "frustrated lot" who formerly aspired to power in Cuba and who

currently comprised not a fifth column but a sixth column. (* (Le)

134-10158-3

(29) 1.

*Fidel and Raoul Castro; Che Guevara

traveled between Cuba and the US (protect

Ray should not be included

as part of a Cuban Government because he was

a Socialist in his thinking and policy. He stated that Ray obviously

nad convinced someone in authority that he had a much larger followin

in the underground than he actually had..u:

{13-7-210-367 A(u)

-(19)V

the "Diario Las Americas,

o Las Americas, a a Miami rally Spanish

Vice President and Director of

language newspaper,

advised that he had recently received for publication

in that newspaper

an article from Aureliano Sanchez Arango, who was actively involved in

counterrevolutionary matters against Fidel Castro. This article was

highly critical of the RC of which Manuel Ray was

a member.

Aguirre

refused to publish the article inasmuch as he felt it would serve no

useful purpose as far as the US Government or counterrevolutionary

efforts were concerned.:

62-45716-225 p. 2

NESS

REVIEWED BY ELUFK TASK FORCE

o N b-13.80 dol

* RELEASE IN FULL

RELEASE IN PART

TOTAL DENIAL

brh

-20-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued)

Ray also advised

that Rogello Cisneros, who was the chief

of clandestine activity of the Mi Ri in Cuba and who was currently in

Miami, would be able to furnish additional information concerning

Murillo. i

105-95804-7 p. 2

(11)V

On 5261, Dr. Ruben De Leon Garcia, Miami, Coordinator of

the Armed

Republic of Cuba in Exile (2-1707) furnished

a report in Spanish which set forth

four separate groups of exiled

Cuban military personnel. Comprising one group were officers who

wished to keep the rank as leaders but who considered themselves as

separate from the other groups.

Among those listed in this group was

Colonel Ramon Barquin Lopez and Lieutenant Colonels Manuel Varela

Castro and Jose E. Monteagudo Fleitas. All were involved politically

with Manuel Ray,

head of the MRP, which was considered a left-wing anti-

Castro organization by Dr. De Leon.';

Translation of report set out

2-1707-3 p. 12

(1)V

sympathetic with the anti-Castro underground movement headed by Manuel

Ray

He continued that while in Madrid he communicated with Ray in

Miami and expressed a desire to do something to assist the MRP. He

subsequently was invited by Ray to come to Miami as he felt he could

use him in connection with anti-Castro propaganda. Guede went to

Miami on 1860-1-2.41

on 5961, Rigoberto Castellanos, PSI (protect identity), a

Cuban exile who was

closely acquainted with Ray and who had knowledge

of the activities of persons associated with him, advised that Guede

joined the MRP after turning against Fidel Castro.

According to source,

Guede lived a short distance from Ray in Hialeah..

Add. info. according to the "Miami News," 32360.

105-94082-5 p. 1,3-5,7

(8V

-22-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET:

The State Department advised that on 82261, Dr. Carlos

Prio Socorras (109-430), former President. of Cuba currently living in

the US,

met with a

group of exiles,

members of the Association of Cuban

Industrialists and Businessmen, in

Mexico. During the course of the

meeting, Dr. Prio spoke harshly about Dr. Miro Cardona but highly

praised Manuel "Tony" Varona and Manolo Ray. He stated that the US

was keeping Cardona as head of the CRC because he, unlike the other

two, had refrained from criticizing the US over the invasion flasco.a(u

109-430-2409

, DECLASS PER DOS PER

(28)V

th EIR 1E1. DTD 1-6-98

S001SR

5-13-98 JFK

A Newark report dated 82261 revealed that George R. amon

(105-63729) had told numerous individuals on Long Beach Island the

following: Damon was a close friend of Manuel Rey, whom he described

as the leader of the anti-Castro forces in the US. Rey had made Damon

a colonel in the army that was attempting the overthrow of castro.

Rey was currently in Miami

and had commissioned Damon to purchase

motors for PT boats.

Damon found motors he could obtain for 400. He

intended to charge Rey 750 plus 150 transportation charges.

stated that he made frequent trips to Cuba from Miami, presumadly ir

PT boats.

He would smuggle people out of cuba for a fee but would not

allow them to take anything on board for fear of their concealing a

bomb. Damon further stated that he could obtain any type of weapon

in the Miami area presumably from an arms cache belonging to Rey.

(Source not clear)

105-63729-14 p. 1,5

(46)V

On 82961, Carlos Francisco Arazoza Forcade (134-10688)

advised that many people had broken with Fidel Castro who were

originally allied with him not because Castro failed them but because

they failed Castro.

One such individual was Manolo Ray, who was

currently Coordinator of the MRi in the Us.

was Minister of Public Works under Castro for a time and that Ray's

brother also had a good position in the Castro regime but was caught

mishandling funds and was either shot or committed suicide..

believed in many things that Castro did, including state ownership of

principal industries.

Arazoza continued that he, Ray, was organizing

a movement in the US

against Castro and that Dr. Ricardo la Flor and

Dr. Guillermo Gonzalez Fraga, physicians at the Thomason General

Hospital in El Paso, were Ray's adherents although they were anti-

castro. u

134-10688-1 p. 7

(19629)V

-27- SECREP

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET!

(continued)

Source continued that reports from Cuba indicated that the

people continued to have faith even though they might have withdrawn

all their support in the national cadres in exile, including Ray!

105-4188-1-0-6 p. 3,4

(12)V

Francisco Javier Soler, Cuban political refugee in New

urleans, La., who was until June, 1901, Director of the Quality

Standards Section of the Ministry of Commerce in Cuba (protect identity),

advised that, to his

knowledge, activity among underground groups in

Cuba had ceased considerably.

He stated that he had no direct

information but understood that there was some strength in either the

group headed by Manolo Ray or Tony Varona. *M

The above information was submitted in a New Orleans airtel

dated 11162.

105-95461-47 p. 2

(24)V

CSNY 2822-S advised on 11562, that Jose M. Franco who

was in charge of the Sales Department of

Azucarera Haina C. por A of

the Dominican Republic (DR), had been in NYC since 1162 contacting

numerous sugar brokers concerning future sales of Dominican sugar to

Franco stated

the tae time at the do peat to or the in situation in the or,

that after thirty years of dictatorship, the DR would need a very

liberal and left of center government.

He indicated that the troubles

of the

DR were due to "Yankee imperialism." He continued that at

present the Us had a government which thought along very liberal

and

leftist lines. Franco then stated that Manuel Ray Rivero had

sent by the is to assist the reconstruction in no idea don"

109-12-211-1263

(16,36)

SECRET!

-30-

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRETI

on 72502, Piero redel1,

who had recently left Cuba,

reported that Manuel Ray, despite his leftist thinking, and Jose

Miro Cardona were the most highly respected Cuban exile leaders

according to the rebel organizations in Cuba.

105-95461-115 p. B,4

(11)V

On 8362, Gerardo Gabriel Antonio Hernandez Perez

(105-3456-1-1), Miami

advised that he and many other Cubans had a

very poor opinion of

several Cuban exile leaders, including Manuel

Ray Rivero, because they were once with the Castro regime and

probably would have stayed if there had been sufficient opportunity

for them to advance politically and financially. Hernandez classified

Ray as probably the most ambitious of any and as anti-American as any

105-3456-1-1-1 p. 7

(34)V

Noel Gonzalez Mantici (105-6815-1-1), a Cuban alien in Miami,

considered himself a close friend of Manuel Ray, who was formerly

a member of the anti-Castro CRC in Miami. (Source not clear,

176-3, t8-10760 q2c tr

probably NM 776-S, 81062)(MU1)

105-6815-1-1-1 p. 4

(14)V

A CIA report dated 82262 indicated that Manuel Ray, former

MRP leader

was seeking a combined command of all five resistance

groups in Cuba and a poolina of funds

strength to the resistance mavement. m

the CRC to give greater

105-95461-125

CIA INFO (F) REMANS

CLASSIFHED PER THEIR

12 31|90LTR.

(11)4

602 (#24, 326)

21691

on 82762g Fred W. Stewart

Harvester Company,

San Juan,

(105-1831-1-1) was in San Juan working in the anti-Castro movement of

Manolo Ray

105-1831-1-1-8 p. 3

(25)V

SI 105-1831-1-1-5

(25)V

-36-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

Jorge Estiva was interviewed at 1878 W.

Revolutionary

Recovery Movement) (MRRC) (105-8646-1-0). Estiva advised that the

MRRC had been dissolved in mid-September, 1962,

and that most of the

members had been absorbed by the recently formed JURE, which

took

over the above haars.

Source stated that JURE was organized in

Puerto Rico by the well-known anti-Castro Cuban, Manuel Ray, and

included members from five different anti-Castro groups?:;

105-8646-1-0-15

(12)V

for a number of years, both in Cuba and since his arrival in Puerto

Rico. He,

source, un

according to source, favored Fidel Castro at one time but

was currently regarded as being very anti-Castro and pro-American.

At one time, he was considered to be a follower of Manolo Ray, a

Cuban exile

residing in Puerto Rico and presently employed by

the

Puerto Rican Planning Board, but was not known to currently favor Ray

105-4953-1-1-2 p. 2

(27)L

On 1662-1-0, Alberto Gutierrez De La Solana, NY, advised

that he was associated with a new anti-Castro organization known as

"Alpha 66" (105-2098-1-1). He related that there had been many rumors

that Engineer Manuel Ray was one of the leaders of that group but

that he had thoroughly checked this rumor and found it to be untrue.

He indicated that if Ray had been connected with the organization in

any way, he would have immediately severed his relationship. up

105-9868-21-20 p. 2

(12425)V

Playa port i see cat one a 0 on or 2 (10 5-11953)

began working there on 11102.

At that time he listed as an employment

reference Manolo Ray, Puerto Rican Planning Board, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

105-4953-1-1-5 p: 1

(27)

-37-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

A CIA report dated 12363 revealed that Angel Miolan,

chairman of the Partidó Revolucionario Dominicano (PRD - Dominican

Revolutionary Party) had been

approached by JURE, headed by Manuel

Rav Rivero.

to obtain permission from the PRD to

establish JURE

representation in the Dominican Republic. 15)

109-12-211-1705

(16436)K

By letter dated 21563 at Miami, Robert H. Hoadley (134-9231)

offered to assist the Bureau on the Cuban

and Latin American situation.

He praised the Bureau but mentioned several things he could not under-

stand such as

"How can you believe that Mr. Miro Cardona is a real

anti-communist? - I can mention others' names as Manuel Ray, Just

He also set out references who could

Justed

It was noted that he was formerly contacted as a PSI in

Miami but was dropped when his army record, which showed a discharge

Ior psychoneurosis, became known.

It was further noted that Hoadley

should be contacted but that he

should not be utilized as a source.ug

134-9231-8

( 19)V

A CIA report dated 22763 concerning Jose Julian Perez Vidal

active leader of the revolution against Castro, among the

greater possibilities for overthrowing the Castro regime.

CIA INFO REMARIS CLASSIFIED

N831,4 PER THEIR 3190-1-7 LTE.

105-63791-25

SPUBJAGOL C

T2l1, 326) 2191

(3,33)V

и)

CIA reported that Manuel Artime (105-85440) had a scheduled

appointment on 3963 in San Juan, Puerto Rico, with Governor Luis

Munoz Marin.

He intended to discuss the Cuban situation, the Dominican

situation, and Manuel Ray, head of JURE,

and hoped to receive some

type of anti-Castro support. Artime indicated that it was his under-

standing that at present there was a personal rift between Munoz and

Ray and that this was an opportune time to make the trip to puerto Rico.

105-85440-10

(4)V

-40-

NECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

On 53163, PSI

Rafael Valdes (protect identity) stated

that there had been a strong rumor among Cuban exiles that Gutierrez

PSI Rafael Valdes (protect identity) reported that on

6463 he met with Gutierrez Menoyo in NY at which time he learned

that Gutierrez had been spending much time with JURE members in an

effort to reach some type of agreement but that as of 6463, no

agreement had been made.

personally spoken with

the weekend of 6163 but Ray would retum to NY on the weekend o

863 and he, Gutierrez, might meet with him then a f2

105-2098-1-1-297 p. 3,4

(12200

Rafael Valdes, PSI under development (protect identity)

advised that on 61463

he conversed with Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo during

which time he learned that there had been no union of the Second

National Front of Escambray (SNFE) - Alpha

66 (105-2098-1-1) with JURE.

Gutierrez stated that there were many difficulties to overcome before

any union could be made with JURE, which was headed by Manuel "Manolo"

Ray. Informant related that Gutierrez spoke very bitterly concerning

Ray and stated that Ray wanted only to get all anti-castro organizations

under the control of JURe.

It was noted that Gutierrez was the Military Chief of SNFE.

105-2098-1-1-315 p. 12,3,4

(12.26)

On 61463, Manuel Artime Buesa, 6151 Southwest 16th Terrace,

that he was formerly

a doctor and Rebel Army

ot ficer in Cuba and was currently head of the flavimiento Recuperacion

Revolucionario (MRR) (97-4133).

He related that recently he had been

conferring with several anti-Castro organizations in regard to forming

a coordination of military efforts against cuba.

He stated that he

refused to meet with such left-wing organizations as those of Manuel

Ray and Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo whom he considered extremists and

demagogues. i!

97-4133-63 p.-2

(2) V

-44-

SECRET!

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Ray presided over MRP meeting at home of

Helipe razos, cuban nationa

Piedras, Puerto Rico; explained "Bp's

purpose. (Juan

Agiular, protect identity,

1461)

Ray reportedly slipped in and out of Cuba

directing underground there.

MRP

respected by Cuban exiles in US.

Leadership? (int 639-5, January, 1967) (2)

Ray was member of Castro's organization

in underground in Havana, Cuba, during

1957-1958; well experienced in

sabotage

and underground activities.

(Hugo

Gonzalez Lajonchere, working with FRI

underground, 1601,

И)

Third in series of articles entitled,

"Countdown for Castro," by Joseph Martin

and Phil Santora discussed anti-Castro

movements and dedicated cold-blooded

opportunists thirsting for power.

Article set out brief biographical sketch

of Ray; his desire for "Fidelism without

Fidel;" the names of his allies; his

possible leftist leanings; his acceptance

by the US Government; and his dispassionate

reference to his brother.

Ray was

head of MRP. (Investigator

Mitchell Solomon, INS,

Philadelphia,

furnished document entitled "Cuban

Counter-Revolutionary Organizations."

(Date of mail 12361 (6)(4) F07N6416-55-06 1683

Majority of most important front groups

such as MRP headed by Ray led either by

known communists or purely political

opportunists.

Ray,

known communist,

openly declared that only thing wrong

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

(163 p. 11

.. 11

Sub A

"NY Daily News"

(18)

11061

Document enclosed

2693 encl. p. 3

(16)V

2748

(45) r

(continued on next page),

-46-

SECRETI

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

the thought that Ray was a communist or

wanted to retain communist order of

government in cuba but while kay was

leftist other MRP Executive Committee

members were rightists; Ray leading

Executive Committee member.

(Armando

Lora, Miami, Fla. 31461) )

Former Minister of Public Works in Cuba;

policies for the next Cuban Government.

(Interview of Manuel Ray Rivero, 32861)

In early April, 1961 invasion of Cuba

expected; Miro

cardona, Provisional

President of Cuba, visited anti-Castro

camp in Guatemala

with CIA officials;

Ray ordered underground, in Cuba to assist

and cooperate with any invasion Iorce

which might land in Cuba.

racetved information trom Ernestools CX(u)

Betancourt, MRY member, who reportedly

received information from Ray ok

Ernesto Betancourt of MRP in Washington, DC,

1n. almost nightly telephonic contact

with Ray prior to April,

1961 Cuban

invasion. (WF-1161)S)

All Cuban exiles for unity against

Castro but unity being prevented by

leadersof various factions, including

protdo Lentil fate not siven)urce

Since failure of invasion on 41761,

Ray planned to leave FRD as MRP blamed

(Armando Lora,

Miami, Fla.,

member

of MRP Executive

Board, 53161) 1:

Ray addressed student group at Harvard

Jniversity on 5301 recommendin

ontinuance of revolution acainst Castro

and was well received. (Gustavo De Aragon,

former Cuban Consul at Boston, Mass:,

Cuban Consulate)

-4.8-

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2773

(28)v

2960

(28) v

17

047

17)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SSCRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Prior to invasion of Cuba on 41761

there was much discontent among pilots

of invasion force over insistence that

Ray be accepted as a member of the RC.

Pilots understood Ray was forced on

Council by Us State Department.

Practically all Cuban exiles agreed

Kay must be dropped from Council.

Matias Farias, who participated

recent Cuban invasion, 5561) 1,

Informant in close contact with Ray.

Prior to 41761 Cuban invasion, Ray

against bloodshed and violence but

currently sought violent overthrow

of Castro.

Ray had practically given

up on US

assistance and would seek

support in Latin America.

contemplated residing in Costa Rica

where he would wage a campaign against

Cuban Government. Supposed to meet

i goinst

in Florida during week of 7961

with other Cuban

feaders. (NY 3248-

P51, 11001)

Meeting at home of Dr.

Guillermo

Alonso Fujol, rormer Vi Ce President

of Cuba, during weekend of 71561

scheduled to be attended by Ray and

other leaders of anti-Castro organi-

zations for purpose of uniting to

overthrow Castro. (NY 2865-5)(d)(U1)

Ray denounced FRD and planned ho

85-3, 41305 XTj

(MM 639-S, 52561)

Claimed US Government forced his ouster

as

head of MRP; resigned from MRP.

(Miami newspapers (unidentified), mid

July, 1961)

Some MRP members claimed the organi-

zation in Miami refused to accept

Ray's replacement from Cuba and claimed

that organizations in Miami and Cuba

should mutually decide on replacement

Individual the 05-5, 8629-77-1

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

2854

(17

2894

2910 p. 1,9

(36)V

(continued on next page)

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Prior to August, 1961, Ray head of MRP

MRP considered largest

and most significant

in underground

in Cuba. (No source)

Suspended from MRP membership.

(Ignacio

Mendoza De La Torre, Miami Beach,

Fla.,

72861) 410

Resigned from MRP. (Mendoza, supra,

September, 1961)

MRP tom by strife over status of Ray.

Ray would be maintained in advisory

capacity by MRP and would not have any

absolute power to act for the organization

as previous Ly

(Numerous informants

(identified)) (Date of mail 10361

MRP broken into 2 factions in Puerto

Rico: the larger group under one

"Gelabert" (phonetic), the smaller group

under Ray. Ray employed by Commonwealth

of Puerto Rico's Planning Commission.

MRP lost many members due to "socialistic"

policy of Ray. (PSI Juan Fernando

Aguilar Leon andor PSI (UD) Roberto

Bernardo Roca Rosillo (protect identities)

(Date of mail 2401-1-1 121)

Former head of MRI in Miami,

in Puerto Rico. (No

currently

source, date

of

mail

1962) ,

Ray was associate of Armando Pessino,

industrialist who stated he backed

Castro because of a need for increased

social benefits for Cuban workers.

(Bureau Agent obtained information

31562)

on

180(24)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

'PAGE NUMBER

2959 P. 5-

(171,36)1

2940

(17)V

2983

(28) 1

3047 p. 15

(17)v

3109

(17)

(continued on next page)

- 50-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Ray employed by US Government in the

Alliance for Progress program; formerly

headed the MRP; considered by

majority

of Cuban exiles as anything from outright

communist to a "leftist" in

his thinking

which resulted

in tire being thought of

as extremely liberal.

not clear, possibly 5862Je(U)

Ray returned to Puerto Rico on 51762

from Washington, D.C., Claiming he was

granted permission to form a military

group in Puerto Rico to attack Cuba, help

consisting of war materials and

financial assistance.

Other Cuban

exile

leaders in Puerto Rico distrustful

of

Manolo Ray on basis of his political

philosophy and decided they must be in

position to attack Cuba the same time as

Ray but not under his leadership. Exiles

felt this important lest Ray's groups

would be successful and he subsequently

would claim he liberated Cuba.

Roberto Roca Ros1110,

subject of

Bufile 105-99003)

Dr. Ernesto Aragon

Y Godoy,

233 E. 69th

St., NYC, who was secretary to Dr. Jose

Miro Cardona, President of CRC, advised

he and Cardona were informed on 52662

by MRP in Havana that they should have

5 coordinators instead of one.

Suggested were Fernandez Nuevo, Miami;

Joaquin Godoy, Miami; Andres Valdespino,

NYC; Ray of San Juan; and unidentified

individual. Aragon stated that Nuevo,

Godoy and Valdespino were against Ray:

together a following within MRP.

On 52862, Aragon conversed with AG

regarding newspaper article relative to

replacement of Cardona with Ray.

Aragon

said Ray would never have anything to do

with CRC. AG said, "we'11 see" but left

impression

that Ray would have no say

in CRC.

И)

-51-

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3183 p- 19,20

(17)1

209г

17

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

"Miami Herald" (date not given) reported

that kay would replace Miro Cardona as

head of CRC.

On 52962, United Press

International indicated that accordinc

to State Department, above report

unfounded.

Appointed to co-ordinating committee

of MRP in Exile but refused appointment

Joaquin Godoy, 133 San Sebastian,

Coral Gables, Fla., 62062) M:

Ray had practically no following in

Puerto Rico or US and Cuban exiles

considered him left of center. Ray

not

a communist but advocated most of ideas

practiced by Castro. LMariano Roca

1s1, protect identity, 5662) 821)

Ray said that all "Popular" political

factions outside

would be accomodated

in a new JURE in an effort to restore

splintered movement into an effective

working organization; that Movement would

be financed almost entirely by Cubans.

("San Juan Star," 72462)

Ray, Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE)

leader and consultant for Puerto Rico

Planning Board, would head group of

underground personnel expected at

gathering of Cuban exiles in Ponce,

Puerto Rico on September 15 and 16,

1962,

to plot overthrow of Fidel Castro.

("San Juan Star" 9462)

9462 article was result of efforts

by Ray, who was using current Cuban

to attempt to regain political

prestige he once held among Cuban exiles.

Cuban exiles not expected to attend

meeting

as they had no confidence in

protest dentity, 1462 der001 PSI,

or his ideas.

Esteve.

94627

' PSI, protect identity,

-52- SECRED

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3275 po

1,3,15

(18)V

3281 en01. D. 1-3.

(continued on next page)

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Regarding same article, the prediction

that 113 Cubans expected to attend

meeting was strictly propaganda by Ray.

Meeting expected to fail but Ray and

followers would continue efforts to

win exiles by trickery and false

(Jeronimo Esteve,

Junta Revolucionaria met in Rio Canas,

Puerto Rico, during September, 1962,

and mapped out strategy to throw

Russians and Fidel Castro out of Cuba;

Ray chosen by Junta as one of the leaders

of a nine-man directorate.

Between 92462 and 10662, Miro

Cardona informed State Department he

was ready and willing to unite with any

Cuban organization dedicated to overthrow

of current Cuban regime except Ray's

forces or any former, criminals.

Cardona

concerned over pressure by State

Department to readmit Ray into the

consejo, believed to ultimately be

coming from Governor Luis Munoz Marin of

Puerto Rico who supported Ray.

From

statements made by State Department,

cardona believed State might pressure

him to join forces with Ray. CIA had no

use for Ray Who would never be read-

mitted to the Consejo if up to them.

(Dr: Ernesto Aragon Godoy

St., NYC, delegate of Cpr? 233 E. 69th

"Counterrevolutionary Handbook,

dated 1062-1-0, compiled by CIA

contained survey of anti-Castro

organizations.

Numerous information

set out regarding Ray's connection

with the MRP, JURE and Alpha 66.

CIA INFO IN LAST?

1)

REMAINS

GASSIFIED

PERTHER 1431ROLIK.

5863 SACa

(0211,326)

|91

-53-

Sub A "The Miami Herald

29)V

91962

3332 p. 2-4

(18)1

Copy of handbook enclosed

3387 encl. p. 1,6,14,19,

(7344-18-28367,50,55,98

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Ray stated that 40 was total membership

of JURE

in Puerto Rico; presided over

JURE meeting in Santurce, Puerto Rico.

in early January; claimed JURE had 3,000

in bank.

Block

Here to po to rot, 7633-12-4

111

Ray considered by Cuban exiles in

Miami as being anything from a communist

to an extremely radical nationalist.

Exiles believed he would only replace

government officials with his personal

friends but would not change form of

government if Castro were overthrown

by him.

Since Ray was so highly

controversial and discredited by exiles,

tea by exiles,

his organization might never be

acceptable to them.

Exiles complained

that Ray received backing from Governor

Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico; was

favorably written about by US press;

and apparently was well considered

by US State Department. Lim 639-5,

7100-21-63 21)

Around early

Aru cardon, president ERJose

complained to tormer Senator Santiago

Rey Pernas that US State Department

instructed him to try to cooperate

With Ray and even attempt to suppor

him.

Miro expressed disgust and

stated it was

time for organizations

like Ray's to form liaisons with Miro

for purpose of being able to plan

action should US support of Ray become

pronounced. (1 CU

Jose Ruiz-Williams

Alfert, second in

command of heavy artillery during April,

1961 invasion, contacted Ray in Puerto

Rico in connection with uniting Cuban

exiles. ("The Miami News," 51063)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3414 p. 26,21

(18)1

519 P

28131n

35757; 3

-54-

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
C

SECRET

(continued) (105-7222-1-1)

INFORMATION

Same information as serial 3575 according to

"The Miami Herald," 51163

MRP, Second Front of Escambray, Alpha

30th of November and Frente Anti-

Comunista de Liberacion agreed to

unite in attempt to overthrow Castro.

JURE regarded as being considerably to

left of other organizations.

(Joaquin

Godoy,

in charge of Foreign Affairs

and Public Relations of MRP, May 16 and

19, 1963) 4:

As of 52763, Ray had not signed with

che cuban committee of Liberationg i

inity group of exile organizations.

(MM- 639-S )

И)

Ray was former Minister of Public

Works under Castro; deposed as Cuban

head of MRP; currently believed to be

living in Puerto Rico. (CIA rpt.

52863)

Edwin Martin,

Assistant Secretary of

State for Latin American Affairs,

organizations, in luch see headed

by Ray, as only organizations with

clandestine assets. JURE believed

by exiles to be group most favored by

US Government as declarations of Ray

were appearing in the press and his

prominence being pushed by Governor

Luis (Munoz) Marin of Puerto Rico and

President Romulo Betancourt of Venezuela,

both of whom had excellent contacts

in Washington. (CIA rpt. 53063)

u)

CIA INFO IN i S 45 REMAINS

CLASSIFIED PER THEIR 3190-1-2

LTR.

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

3570

(18)V

3585 P--7

(45)k

168) р. 6

3583

3595

(18,37; 3

(continued on next page)

-55-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Ray aware of widespread discontent with

economic and ideological policy of

Castro government but stated that now

was not the time to take any serious

overt action.

Ray and others claimed

that Fidel Castro realized people's

discontent with Raul Castro and Ernesto

an amosto

"Che" Guevara and intended to correct

situation before 1160 but this was

loubted. (Sergio Sanjenis Cabarrocas, a

rominent revolutionary in undergrounc

prior to fall of Batista, 1359-1-0)

Regarding Cuban Cabinet reorganization

of 2659-1-1, Luis Baralt, Cuban Consul(S

General in NYC, concerned about Ray

Minister of Public Works prior to

reorganization) whom he considered one

of the Cabinet's best men. (Baralt )LS

stated that Ray lost Cabinet position

because he protested treatment of

Major Hubert Matos (arrested in Cuba

on charges of treason). (NY 2494-S*)(S)

Same information as above.

Same information as above according

to HAV-4 andor Octavio Valdes, prominent

cordinoming

head of construction firm in Havana. V

Article captioned, "Pro-Red Takes Over

Cuba's Bank" set out Cuban Cabinet

changes.

Ray made president of army's

Superior Institute of Science and

lechnology, an apparent new post.

Ray

reportedly

had been trying to leave

Castro's official family.

Same information as above according to

CIA.

Same

CIA

ormation as above according to

CIA INFO LASTZIPE

REMAINS

HASSIFIED FERR

TME 12.12

40 WIR.

SPEBSA

5211, 326)

abilar

-60-

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

45V

987

(14)V

Sub A"NY Times" 2759-1-1

(1535)4

892

(45)V

Sub A "New York Herald

(15)V Tribune" 2759-1-1

1050 P.

(14,35)1

989

( 14)V

(continued on next page)

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
'SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

Herbert Matthews of "New York Times"

stated that the "young crowd"

considered

Ray a moderate who did his best to apply

orthodox theories, methods and practice

to a dynamically

revolutionary situation.

(NY 2494-S*)) (5)

Raul Chibas and Ray allies in anti-Castro

movement.

Ray replaced by Osmani

Cienfuegos as cabinet member under Castro.

Ray had been attempting to leave Cuba

clandestinely and ask asylum in US.

Ray may have recently taken asylum in

an embassy in Havana. Data concerning

movement would possibly be available when

Chibas and Ray arrived in US.

(Orlando

Attrees 3760-19-2) ie

Vice President, Cubana

Same information as above.

1073

Same information as above according to

State Department. (V)

Ray's MRP gaining in strength and

effectiveness.

Because of prestige

he enjoyed as revolutionary leader

during Batista period and as competent

administrator while in Ministry of

Public Works,

he could serve as rallying

point for diffuse opposition forces

Cuba. (State Department, September, 1960)4> (42)

As of 92260

4314

Ray in Fla. (State

Department) ( UL)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

.005 P. :

14)1

2050 p- 1-3,

15)v

02z p.

14)V

311 p.

27)

(continued on next page)

-61-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

Many in Cuba disappointed that US

Government would

permit Ray to be

leader of provisional government of

Cuba. Ray's father was known communist.

Ray very friendly with Castro while Ray

Minister of Public Works.

Anti-Castro

underground camps in Cuba near rebellion

when Ray's position in contemplated

new government announced.

(Mrs. Sherlock

Hackley, 760 Park Avenue, NYC, 0170-41-7

Ray prominent member of Revolutionary

Council in Miami.

(Source not clear;

date of mail 42861)

2891

(15)V

2951 p. 2

Ray invited to speak before Cooperative

forum, Room 401, Union station,

3036

(28)

Washington, D.C.

for 6761 or 61461; given

tentatively scheduled

privilege

of selecting his own audience. Cu P (161 s U)

Ray attended

above meeting on 6761

during which he held question and answer

088

2801

session.

Gave impression to those in

attendance that he was one of few

Cubans possessing leadership ability

Cuban military field. (WF((16I}S)

Puerto Rican Governor Luis Munoz Marin

Dr. Ramon Suarez, eminent Puerto Rican

and

237 Pro 29

15)0

physician, extremely interested in frank

appraisal oi attitude of Ray, recently

denounced leader of MRP who had receivec

considerable adverse publicity.

Ray was

an engineer, well educated, a good

organizer, quite determined, anti-

American,

dangerously to the left,

unclear

on certain vital matters.

dropped from Mke Leadership because of

his leaders' dissatisfaction with his

ambiguous statements and tear that

would have "Fidelismo sin Fidel" (e)u)

(continued on next page)

-62-

SECRETI

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

(continued) (109-12-210)

INFORMATION

(Fidelism without Fidel). In latter

July, 1961, Governor Munoz refused to

engineering

po SIt Ion.

Ray apparently

undetermined, allegedly having

received

attractive offer from

someone

in US with Latin American

interests.

Ray appeared to be politically

dead as a Cuban leader.

(Dr. Agustin

Castellanos Gonzalez, under development

as a PSI-Cuba, protect identity, 8661)

Dr. Miguel Buch among controversial

Cuban doctors in US.

He belonged to

Ray's group; was not known to have

attacked communism or Castro publicly.

Identity, 2719-18-6 121) protect

(PSI Agustin Caste lanes

Jorge Barroso, head of Sugar Institute

in Cuba during Batista regime, advised

CSNY 2822-S on 2162 that Governor

Luis Munoz Marin* regretted recommending

Ray for membership as he lacked leadership

qualities. (X)(U)

Ray approached by

Captain Perez Alamas

(inu), former Chief of G-2 in Camaguey,

and Manuel Toyos, member of the Huber

Matos group in exile, regarding reaction

of followers of Matos should Cuban Govem-

ment release some 2,000 political

prisoners in exchange for a "do-nothing-

against-Castro" policy when Castro started

campaign against Cuban communists which

would retum 26 of July Movement to power.

(CIA rpt. 1463)

(gu)

SERIAL AND SEARCH SLIP

PAGE NUMBER

CA (U)

355) p. 1

515 P. C

6354-1-5

1009

(15635)V

(continued on next page)

*of Puerto Rico

-63-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

##
SECRET

REFERENCES NOT INCLUDED IN THIS SUMMARY

Manolo Ray Rivero, Manuel Ray Rivero,

located in

in the Special File Room of the Files and Communications Division,

Records Branch, were not reviewed:

REFERENCE

64-330-210-1063

1109

(5)

105-86020-788-

850

105-89923-134

152

155

164

187

-A "NY Herald Tribune" 1961

-A "Sunday Visitor" 51461

-A "The Worker" 1461-1-1

-A "NY World Telegram" 22362

SEARCH SLIP PAGE NUMBER

(21)V

(2) 1

(3530-4-8)r

(5)1

(5)

(5):

(5)55

(5)

(5)V

(22)V

(5) 4

(22)V

See the search slip filed behind file for other references

on this subject which contain the same information (SI) that is set

out in the main

file. Differences in source will be noted on the

search slip.

-65-

SECRET

NW 65994 Docld:7127-32-30
---

