# DOCID-3708-32-36

##
in dia

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

---___

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10124-10021

RECORD

SERIES

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: CIA

TO

: CIA

TITLE : VERBAL APPROVAL OF CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE EOR JAMES

W. MCCORD, JR.

DATE

PAGES

1962-05-21

1

SUBJECTS : CLEARANCE

CIA FILES

MCCORD, JAMES W

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 1294-0-4

COMMENTS : JFK44 : E11 : 1994.04.12.14:27:37:0007-4-7

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10124-10021

NW 65924 Docld:3708-32-36
---

##
FILE - 8.

SECRET

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE

offece

Chil

SUBJECT

James W. Melord

COMPONENT

OS

CLEARANCE REQUESTED

CRYPTO TRAINING AND OPERATION

LOX ACCESS ONLY

: Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

RECOVE

DATE

21 May 1962

FROM: Chief, Communications Security Staff

IT IS REQUESTED THAT THIS OFFICE

BE ADVISED WHETHER THE SUBJECT EMPLOYEE MEETS CURRENT MINIMUM STANDARDS

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE. AND WHETHER THE

SECURITY OFFICE CONCURS

GRANTING SUCH A CLEARANCE.

FOR THE CHIEF, COMMUNICATIONS:

CPROTEETIVE BANE T

To : Chief, Communications Security Staff

DATE

22 MAY 1962

FROM: .Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

52049

THIS

IS TO ADVISE

THAT

SUBJECT MEETS THE CURRENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE AND

THAT THERE IS NO

OBJECTION

SUCH CLEARANCE.

EMPLOYEE IS U.S. CITIZEN

NO

EMPLOYEE'S SPOUSE IS U.S. CITIZEN

YES

NO

Verbài approval 16 May 62.

File #52049.

TO : Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

FROM: Chief, Communications Security Staff

DATE

THE ATTACHED CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE BRIEFING STATEMENT

SPONSIBILITIES CONTINGENT UPON GRANTING OF THE CLEARANCE.

SIGNIFIED

THAT

SUBJECT ACCEPTED

THE CONDITIONS AND

RE-

CLEARANCE IS EFFECTIVE AS OF THE DATE SHOWN ON

THE BRIEF.

ING STATEMENT.

IT IS REQUESTED THAT THE BRIEFING STATEMENT BE PLACED

IN THE

APPROPRIATE FILE MAINTAINED BY YOUR

OFFICE.

CRYPTOGRAPHIC CLEARANCE REVOKED AS OF

REASON FOR REVOCATION

CHIEF, PROTECTIVE BRANCH

63082 1

sangrating and

decisification

_ NW.:5247-6-9 Docld:3708-32-36
SECRET

(9)

---

