# DOCID-7848-32-35

##
JFK ASSASSINATION

SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10106-10683

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

!

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DCCIRA

: CEBCC

TITLE

ROLE OF VANCOUVER IN DISINFORMATION RE THE GARRISON

INVESTIGATION.

DATE: 1967-08-22

PAGES

SUBJECTS : NORTON DONALD

NORTON

JFK ASSASSINATION

VANCOUVER

SUN

TREVOR LAUTENS

CLASSMENTATION SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS RELEASED IN

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH

DELETIONS

JFK42 E12 0112-20-04-3587-10-3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10:26:2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10106-10683

NW 65924 Docld:7848-32-35
---

##
MEMORANDUM FOR: CEBCC

SUBJECT

: Role of Vancouver, Canada, 1a

Diainformation so the Ca Ttle OR

lavestigation

REFERENCE

: OCOW-6315, 22 Aagues 1967.

subject: KEYWAYCArr Io Os lavestigatton

oí Koanady Assassination: Donald 5.:

NORTON, Elle 100-3ü0-17.

I. Reierence forwarded a ClKA memorandar about.NORTON

to Chiel oi Station, Ottowa. Since that date FBI reports bave shows that

NCATON ls a con man, and U.S. Als Force Medieal recordo hate te-:

vealed that he seas discharged in July 1950 as a resull of psychiatito

problems, having tried on two or more occaslona to commit suicide.

NORTON's llés about Cl A firat appeared in the Vancourer Sue on 5

August i967.

2. The attached FEl seport, DBB 77295, 10 April 1967, concerne

enother example of disinformation appeartag in Vancouver, involving the

Sas, and related to the Gairison case. A check of Agency files showed

that we have no record ol Ire Tor LAUTENS, Mario GRACIAS, Or 6

Mios Dorothy WHITIY. The reference of the unidentified caller to

GRACIAS may have been a garble for Manuel GARCIA Gonzales, "bor

Garricon has named as one of the assassios of President Kennedy but

who appears to have disappeared or to be non-exlatent. There are no

Agency traces (including JINWAVE) on GARCIA.

3. The Communist press generally and Soviet news media specilleall

have given Garrison's story enthuslastic coverage and support, because

It 1a obvioudly In their Interest to malatain that President Keanedy was

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:7848-32-35
---

##
SECRET

2

as8zaslaated nor by pro-Commaniat Lee Harvey Onwald bust salbor so

a seoul! of a right-wlag conspiracy lavolving CLA.

A. The suriacing of two arch allegallons in or through the Vascarter

Sun seema to place a strala on colacidence. Do you bave say laformallor

about the use of the San la othor murfaciago of MHORDER propaganda

agaiast CIA! lo thare any laformation about contacte betwees employaes of

the Sua ase representatives as Sorles Intelligence? Il no such laformallos

lo as hasd, ill would be appreciased II thena questions mere formassed to

the Stallas. Although Headquartem has no record of Trevor La Ut ENs.

Il la conceivable thai Station llles may also hold laformation about him.

DONOVANE. PEAt I

DCCIRA

Attachmionis

Distribution

Orig 1 - Adressee

1 - ADCI (ME. Goodwia)

I General Counsel

M - Office of Scearlty (Atta: Ms. Paul Gayaos)

1 - CIRA Ch IODO

1 - DP for filo (New VAn COu VES file)

1 - CIRA (Miss Senith)

ECRET

NW 65924 Docld:7848-32-35
---

