# DOCID-7593-32-17

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD_NUMBER:

124-10190-10098

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE_ NUMBER:

62-6395-1-1-1626

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Diate: 11-01-2021

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

'TO:

TITLE:

SAC, NY

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 1964-04-08

PAGES: 194

SUBJECT: CC, REQ, LHO, RPT, ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE:

ORIGINAL

CLASSIFICATION:

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

- Confidential

NEW

CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE:

STATUS

1998-11-03

Redact

UPDATE DATE:

2001-06-08-

COMMENTS:

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (4)

EBF, INC 10 AT, 14 LHM, 4 MEMO, 8 RPT, ABSTRACT, COVER SHEET

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
TO

FROM

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

5010-106

MAY 1862 EDITION

GSA GEN, BEG, NO. 21

UNISED STATES

ERNMENT

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI (97-4110)

DATE:

JUL 1 E 1964

SAC, MIAMI (97-328) (P)

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATA CRISTIANO

IN - COMA, STRAN DEMOCRATIC NOVEMENT) PORT

IS - CUBA; NM

00: MIAMI

Re Miami letter to Bureau 62264, with enclosures.

for dissemination.

Enclosed herewith are 12 copies of a LHM, suitable

Copies of this LHM have been disseminated locally

to INS, State Department (Cuban Affairs), Border Patrol,

Customs

and CIA.

(Miami and Region II), Coast Guard, G-2, ONI,,

OSI

(NA 7-1 18(AN 639-5) Source

19716,15-0:0

Copy to:) CIAState840, 1N Surtims

-LEAD -

MIAMI:

by routing sup for into..

Date 7r7lbr br Wire

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

Will closely follow this matter with MM 639-s

and keep the Bureau and local Federal agencies advised.

Bureau (Enc-12) (RM)

Miami

RJD: pim

(3)

REC- 61

97-4110-123

ILENCLOSURELL INFESAMTIOR CONTAINED.

JUL 1964-1-7

HATE 4-11-G ASSFIED

84 JUL 29 196 47 dupree depro de on to reen ond a not for tierem

I's use is limited to official proceedings by

your Commi ce unil the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person.

mel without the

ASS.

apprent of the

E.BL

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
25154

12515.501

FBI

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATIONDate: 91353

Transmit the following

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

GMB 4-4-94

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIRMAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

nel without the

sno nogre

WROM

DIRICTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, TAMPA (105-107)

ANZE-YIRL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

43. GUSA

(09: Hand)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

dand

DATE 4-13-94 BYSp S me CIL

SAFE

(JFK)

roval

of

nitent may

ittee.

anclosed for the Bureau are 12 copies of a letter

Its use.

head meno dated and captioned as above which has been dissens

anated locally to INS, ONI, OSI, G2,

Soader Patrol, and U.S. Customs Service.

INTC, U.S. Coast Guard,

Enclosed for Miami are three copies of letterhead

mano; for los Angeles and San Juan are two copies of letter

head memo; and for New York and Jacksonville are one copy

disclosed to

of letterhead memo.

nun

Source Furnishing Information 1s (TP 59-5-

Informant stated that he did not believe CIA 1s

расточа?

involved in the operation referred to in attached letterhead.

Source further advised that he would endeavor to leam identity

of the two "Americans" mentioned therein.

- И

official proscedings y

Inasnuch as source advises that this information

is only known by a few people, recapient offices are requested

not to take any overt action which would compromise the

Informant.

ascertain is they

The Busyau is requested to check with CIA to

me involved.

LAADS

Bureau (Enc 12) (RM)

Jacisonville (Info) (Ene 1) '2a)

- 12091-

ERSKETA

aromatiza

NOT RECORDED

202 SEP 18 1963

Cros angeles (Enc 2) (RM)

MAri (205-1742) (1 - 105-ALPHA 05*.

BAC RMY E

0233

A LI

0722-2-0

932

RATELESTA

IRMLIVITIES, ORLANDO.

112)

Approved

Sent

-_ M

. Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
ORIGINAL FILED IN

109-584-3714

---

##
105-107

MIAMI

AT MIAMI, FLA.

1.

Advise if anything further regarding this matter

Is known by Miami Office.

2.

Contact CIA and advise

the Bureau if that agency

2 1s

13amd

is aware of this matter.

LDS ANSARES

A7 LOS ANGELES, CALIE.

Los Angeles is requested to furnish any information

Chey may have concerning the T-6 aircraft allegedly possessed

60

at Los Angeles.

TARP

AT TAMPA, FLA.

Source

Tampa will maintain contact with (IP 59-S) and will keep

the Bareau and interested offices advised.

714.

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
FD-36 (Rev.

12-13-507

F BI

Date:

91763

Transmit the following in

AIR TEL

Via

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL - REGISTERED

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-2098-1-1)

official proceears g

to inauthorized perser

FROM:

SAG, MIAMI (105-6243) (P)

RIS- 84

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY (SNFE)

(Operation Alpha 66)

IS - CUBA; RA CUBA; NM

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

(00: Miami)

HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

DATE 4-14-94 BYSP8. MACSK

your reyeve

to

is limited

disclosed

Remyairtel 91363; Butted 92263; mytel 91663.

me FBl Ble

Enclosed are 12 copies of IHM setting forth info

in response to

voir Committee.

2 and the content marnot be

contained in retel.

Local dissemination made to Customs, Border Patrol,

CIA, INS, Coast Guard, State Dept. Office of Coordinator of

Cuban Affairs, ONI, OSI, G-2 and FAA.

Copies enclosed for info to Atlanta.

Source

em OT

MM T-1 is

(MM-847-S.

nation antoi tr

921 This document is prepared

the

Per retel, Miami not investigating neutrality

Concret?

nel without

aspects of this matter in view of Customs investigation.

3)

- Bureau (Enc. 12) (AM) (RV)

2

- Atlanta (Eng, 2)(A9)(R) (info)

3

Miami

1 - 134-736 Sub A

Copy to: CIAStateFAE

Yongly DIAcustoms.

ONIOSIACSI

by routing slip for info,

WMD: egh

4-20-63 bx..

(8)

REC- 84

15-42098-348

35091

SER 20.1963

10-

Approved:

Sent

_ M

Special Agent in Charge

series

Per

en O.

NAT. NT

042 58

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
...":

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATTON

PEPORTING OFFICE

ZAMPA

TIE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

ANTI-CLORDO GIOUP, ORLANDO:

:20026A

Grooad lotional Front of Becam

Fury: (Q90P)(Operation Alple 66)

DATE:

1663-1-0

REPOKT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

718 - 1063-1-0

SA MOSES 4.

TIRED SY

CHARACTER OF CASE

ALEIA HAS NO OBJECTION #

pep.

* ANDOR

vi A INFORMATION

IN THIS DOCUMENT.

IS - CURA; RA - CUDA; GMB 4-4-94

NEUTRALINY MATTORS

ANDERENCES:

Jampa sritels to the Bureau captioned ANTIDISL

CASINO ACTIVZRTAS (Dufile 100-504) (Tanpa file 105-107)

dated 71063, 8863, and 91363.

Mani airtel

to Buroau captioned SECOND NATIONAL FRONT

OF ESCAMURAY (ONES) (OPERATION ASPHA 56) datod 10163.

Petires 33

ruthen,

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINEN

HEREIR IS UNCLASSIFIED

MIAMI AND JACKSONVILLE DIVISIONS

filcs

because ot

Copioe are designated

DATE 4-13-94 BYSP MRCAu

for anpropriate Miami and Jacksouvitle

their interest in these matters.

LOS AUGELES DOES ICE

ME LOS ANGELES..

CAUTTORZIA

F. W

Is requested to furrish any information they may have

18.70-7933-05-43

12'1DBureen

SMOR-GETTER-SENT

FECIAL AGEN

I CHANG

ans

c-2,

Pf.

ING

retharson,

1it Sni1,

GA. (RM)

Pla.

(Ri)

(220)

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

1204

0r12n00,

F1a.

-36 Kero

Charleston,

Tobins Ar2

8.C.

(AK)

ous

(J

Ga.

Customs

(BUT)

border

Tonies,

1

U

Patroi

(18R)

Const

Guard

Tamma

Miam

71112

(RAT)

14 OCT 23

1963

í1

- 105-107) (AN2ICT

121

RO

ian)

105-1908)

Dissomination Record of Astoched Report

-ALP

11.

66)

-166-1932Moretors

SEC.

12

77

- Cardingi

to Chis Ma Wake dit

This dooment r

moment? to reconne to wear emined end in not for discome-

10270-

C::

4012-02-67

Ouch of de Pod.

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
TP 105-1982

Copies Made (Continued)

1 - Jacksonville (1 - 105-ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES) (RM) (Info)

2 - Miami (1 - 105-1742) (ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES) (RM) (Info)

(1 ~ 105-6243) (OPERATION ALPHA 66)

?. Los Angeles (105-ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES) (RM)

concerning the T-6 military type aircraft allegedly purchased

by the Alpha 66 Anti-CASTRO organization in Los Angeles.

TAMPA DIVISION

AT ORLANDO, FLORIDA:

Will maintain contact with appropriate sources in

the Orlando, Fla:, area and will keep the Bureau and interested

Ol Ices advised of developments.

INFORMANTS:

IDENTITY

TP I-1 1S IP 59-5

LOCATION OF INFORMATION

ТР 154-22A-41, 43, 45,

IP I-2 is PSI under

development

TP 134-306A-1

RICHARD

J. VERANCS

TP T-3 IS PCI (RAC)

under development

TP 137-606A-6

ROBERT WILLIE LAMP

HAS FURNISHED BOTH RELTABLE AND

TP. T-4 15 TP 110-C (RAC)

UNRELIABLE INPOKNATION IN THE PAST.

TP 137-75A-110

Sources contacted

In the Miami, Fla.,

area 917 to

92663 with negative results are identified as follows:

MM 635-S by SA GEORGE E. DAVIS On 92363

MM 639-S

MM 776-S

by SA ROBERT J. DWYER On 92363

by SA PETER J. NERO On 92363

MIM

847-S

by SA EUGENE L. PAYNE on 91763

B

Cover Page

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
TP 105-1982

HIV

492-S by SA JAMES D. HAYES on 92363

MM 724-S b Y SA JAMES D. HAYES on 92463

PSS IREMANDO GONZALEZ JOY SA FETER J. NERO ON 93385.

ADMINISTRATIVE:

Tanpa has assumea origin in this matter under the

caption of ANTI- CASTRO CROUP, ORLANDO, PLORIDA, a S It has not

been clearly established that this

group officially represents

the Second National Front of Escambray (SNFE) (Operation Alpha 66)

on which Miami is origin...

The latter designation is added to

the title in this report for the sake of clarification, as

nost of the information developed on the Orlando, Fla., group

appears to pertair to SNFE, Operation Alpha 66.

CIA advised the Bureau on 91763 it had no

operational interest in the project mentioned

at Orlando,

concoming tha X6 military type aircratt purchased by hipha st

and its plans to ready this aircraft for possible raids against

FIOME CASTRO.

By airtel dated 10163, the Miami Division advised

the Bureau that f AA, Custons, and

the Coast Guard were contacted

relative to the above-mentioned aircrait, the key allegedly being

used as a base which has an airstrip, and the two Americans who

offered their services, all of which

was with negative results.

All sources at Miami. were alerted to immediately

furnish any information bearing on possible neutrality natters,

Including air raids of attacks by boat.

In connection with the particular allogation that

the group has a key on which they have stored arns and ammunition,

as well as an airstrip, the following is noted.

U. S. Coast Guard Patrol Surveillance and Reconnaissance

Plan dated 926G3 roflects Coast Guard has air patrols in the

sure 1 no matt bon canco

vicinity of the Florida Keys to Marquesa Keys, North Elbow Cay,

Water Cays, Cay Sal Island, the shoal line eastward to Anguila

Cay, eastem edge Cay Sal Bank to Dog Rock, Huertos Cays and

C

Cover Pago

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
TP 105-1982

northeast to Orange Cay, Riding Rocks, Gun Cay and Bimini, on

a twice daily basis, operations and weather permitting.

They

also have intermittent patrole levery six days in bhau of tr

above) of other areas of the Bahamas, including Aaros Istand.

the numerous airstrips throughout the Bahanas are spot checked

in connection with this plan.

Cutters and patrol boats also patrol the Cay Sal Bank,

Florida Keys, and Marquesa Keys.

Too SNE fornerly utilized Milliams Keys, northvest

o1 Andres tuland, as a base.

There is

an airstrip

on this

which the britiah ploved up in April, 1903, but which nay

now be usable. Coast Guard

Intelligence Office, Miani, had

no infornation regarding such a base.

On 1063-1-0,

as furnished the identities of

the tro"Anericans' as DONALD SELIGMAN, of the Selignan Insurance

Agency, Orlando, Fla., and an Individual who uses the alias

Of HANK JACKSON,

but who has a completely different true name

which is unknown to the informat.

Informant fearsd some type

of reprisal. if it vere revealed that he had identified these

two individuals.

For this reason, Tampa did not deen it

appropriate to disseninate the identity of the "Americans" st

this time, nor is it deemed advisable to approach or interview

either one.

Case lad been opened to obtain background through

usual sources.

Appropriate directories list DONALD C. and MARSHA

B" SELIGMAN as residing at 1465 Peruvian Lane, Winter Park,

Florida, telephone MI 7-0146.

The Seligman Insurance Agency

"Is listed at 1419 E. Colonial Drive, Orlando, Fla., telephone

number 422 - 7661.

Cover Page

33. area

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
FD-381 Rey. 16-15-55

SECRET

5 BI

colon 01a0,S766

SP8 m ACHs R

4-22

Date:

11153

ismit the following inl

AIRTEL

4-14-94

(Type in plain text or code)

IN 15:0

VENT.

Gm 14-22-44

1 CAR AE

SHED

MIE SHOWB'

Classified bys

---Deciassity 0R:

SMACUSARMAIL

104

(JEL)-

TO:

DIRECIOR, FBI (105-2098-1-1) 1C6

MINFROM:

*RE:

SAC, MIAMI (105-6243) (P)

21161s

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMERAI 1165-11-2

(SNFE) (OPERATION ALPHA 66)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA;

plaie.cc m

REGISTRATION ACT - CUBÁ

105-0010-1-2(0087-5-1)

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

1ON-2Y049 (JGCE)

(00 - MM)

Spom

psCons.

INSICUSTONSID,

Copy io: CLA STATER

ONI OSIACSI

for Info.

1662

marting slip

Re Miam1 tel sud airtel, dated 1763-1-0.

Enclosed for the Bureau are 12 copies of a

letterhead menorandum, setting forth information regarding

Elleged plans of SNFE. Three copies of lesterhead neuorandat

submitted to Chicago and two copies to Detroit and Milwaukee.

1

Copies of enclosed IHM have been disserinated

Locally to ONI, 6th ND, Charieston, S.E.; OSI, 6th OSI

Distes

Robins AFB, G.; ACofs, G-2, Hg.,

3rd Army, FE.

Mc Pherson, Ga. ; Coordinator of Cuban Affalrs, Dept. of State,

Miani; CIA, Miamt; U.S. Coast Guard, Miani; U.S. Customs,

Manig U.S. Custons, Region Ii U.S. Borrer Fatrol, Miaud:

end INS, Miami as weil a S FAar Mamis0

3

(121- RM)

2078-15-1-322

3 Chicago (Encl8. - 3)

12.

105-13655) (AMRM)

-

(1

92-1425)

2 - Detroit (Encis.

2)

(AM-RM)

1 MOV

4 153

2

Milwaukee (Encls.

as

2) (AM-RM) (105-268L)

I - Miami

(2 - 105-6243)

S SNOV 1963-1-5

105-8013)

105-5041-7-7

WMD: jkj

(44)

SLuo

cremen: is

17 1a 10

nd is not for dissemi-

crorcedings by

This des

your Conce

content

MOny 1000

"? disclosed to unauthorized person

A. s Ioved:

nel without ine express approtal of the FEl.

Per

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
FTY

---

##
MM 105-6243

SECRET

The information regarding the activities of

"DI. SIERRA" has been diaseminated to the Miami Files

relating to PAULINO SIERRA as this Infornation is belleved

to possibly relate to PAULINO SIERRA.

SIERRA is currently

under investigation by the Miami Office and U.S. Castous,

Miami, is investigating the activities of organizations

In which s IERr A has been involved.

Referenced teletype and airtel set forth the

original information fumished by PSI ALFREDO BORCES

regarding military plans of the sure.

U.s. Custome, Miami,

has advised that they are investigating.

Miami has

alerted s Nr E sources to promptly furnist ang information

relating to the military activities and plans of the

group and such inforation will be inediately furnished

to the U.S. Custors, Miami.

In view of the fact that

PSI BORGES advised that his position had been jeopardized

because of open investigation by Custons.

Following

their

receipt of infornation furnished by his on 7163-10-1, Cuetona

has been requested to use utrost caution and discretion

in any investigation conducted by them with regard to

this information. Cl, Miami,

has advised that it has

no operational interest in the

Chicago, sulates ne perrot are sacrested

to contact appropriate sources

for

any anformation

they

may have or can develop regarding

efforts of SNEE

representatives to purchase

arms or military equipsent

In their respective areas.

DIEGO MEDIN a Nd ARMALDO

stant should not be interviewed in order to prosect

1N 847-9

In the svent

that Chicago Interviews

JOSE

CARDOSO,

care should be

exercised in order that

source of the information

cannot be identified as

couáng

from Mismi

2

su Mil let 21361

1393

SEXPET

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
SECKET

MM 105-6243

MM 847-S.

Sources

MM TOL 18

PSI ALFREDO BORGES

The enclosed LIM has been classified "concidential"

as it contains information from sources of continuing value,

the unauthorized disclosure of which could adversely ellect

the national security.

SECKET

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
FD-36 (Roy. 12-13-56)

FBI

Date:

2764

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

(Type in plain text or code)

AIR MAIL

(Priorisy or Method of Mailing)

TO:

FROM:

RE:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, JACKSONVILLE (109-8)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

(00: JACKSONVILLE)

Alpha 66

Enclosed for the Bureau are 12 copies of letterhead

memorandun captioned as above.

Information copies are designated for Miami and

Tampa.

Sources furnishing this information are (Source 1,

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside sour Committee..

Ils use is limited to official proceedings bi

your Commi"s and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorizea person-

nel without the express approval of the EBle

ENCLOSURE

3,

- Burea U

(RM) (Enc. 12)

-.Miami (105-1742) (Enc.

2) (RM)

2

- Tampa (105-107) (Enc. 2) (RM)

- Jacksonville

(2 - 109-8)

(2 - 105-850)

RAK : AWW

(11)

216:000

Approved:

Sent

Snorint drost in Chin

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
A TRON COPY

105: 4789-1-2

NOT Ba CORNED

180 FEB 12 1964

_M:

Per

---

##
22864

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREIN IS UNGLASSIFIED

DATE 4-15-94 BYSP. 8 m ACKSR

(JFK)

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

FROM:

SAC, TAMPA (105-107)

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES

IS - CUBA

Ret Prad to Bureau 22764.

S NP

Enclosed for Bureau are 12 copies of a letterhead

memo dated and coptioned as above.: Four copies of this

letterhead memo are being designated for Miami Office and

dissemination is being nade by the Tampa Office to interested

agencies locally.

TP T-1 referred to

in

enclosed letterhead memo

1SUPSI (UD) BICIAND J. VERANTS

Source

Attached letterhead

memo is classified confidential

to protect a source of continuing value.

Bureau (Encis 12)

Com.

Miami (Encls 4) (105-1742) CAM

(1 - 205-ARHANDO FLEITES)

(1 - 105-ELOY. CUTIERRIE MENOYO)

(1 105-ANTONIO VECKANA)

3 - Tampa

(1 - 105-1982)

(1 - 134-306A)

(10)

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-

stard proceedings. by

Its use is limited to

nitside mong Committee:

nation

eard the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

your Commi

express approval of the FBI

nel without the

ENCLOSURE

105-1120

98-

NOT RECORDED

174 MAR 3 1964

ORIGINAL FIED IN

MAR 6

1964

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
1113

D. 36 (Rev. 12-13-561

FBI

97598

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLDMade

Transmit

DECLASSIFY ON: 25X.

he tollowing in

Date:

3464

AIRTEL

Via

FY PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

AIL - REGISTERED MAIL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

Mr. Tolson.-

Mr. Belmont..

Mr. Mohr....

Mr. Carper:

Mr. Callahan

Mr.

Conrad.

Mr. Delunch

Mr. Eraus

Mr. Gale.

Mr. Rosen

Mr.

Sulliar:

Mr.

Tare!

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room....

Miss Homes.

Miss Gandy..

9187-1-1.

(3190)372

9116

TO:

LASSIFIED

- TRUERT WHERE SHOWS

OTHERWISE

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-2098-1-1)

4-1594

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-6243) (P)

Classi Ved by

Declassiy on:

SUBJECT:

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF

_ESCAMBRAY (SNFE) (OPERATION

-DIU DIA, Cir STOMS

ALPHA 66)

Copy to: CIAStatePig

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA;

ONIOSIACSS

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

by routing slip for inio.

-STAFC

Date.......

....by.

Re Tampa radiogram to the Bureau captioned

"Anti-FIDEL CASTRO Activities, IS - CUBA", dated 22764.

Enclosed for the Bureau are: 13 copies of a

letterhead memorandum dated and captioned as above.

Two copies of above letterhead memorandum are

being furnished the Tampa Division.

Copies of the letterhead memorandum are being

furnished locally to INS; CIA; G-2, Ft. MCPherson, Ga.;

Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Department of State; U.S.

Coast Guard; U.S. Customs; U. S. Customs, Region II; U.S:

Border Patrol; ONI; OSI, Öth Dist., Robins AFB, Gaj and

FAA.

nel without the express approval of the

nation outside vour Commi *ce..

This document 2s

argared in resporse

Source

M -a to condential source (780 s

As

Bureau is aware, this source,

works

as an

105-11-

1I MAR -

15:064

your request.

3-Bureau (Eng? 13) (AM) (RM)

2-Tampa (Enosy 2) (AM) (RM)

RECE

4-Miami

(1-105-1742)7

CONTENTAT

1-134-624 Sub A)C

ELS:hk J

(9)

Approved:

Sent

uncuthorized

al nroceed:

is not for

verson-

mos ou

dissemi-

Spectal Agent in Charge

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
CONFIDENTTAI

MM 105-6243

(Interpreter and translator in the orrice of ELLIOT ROOSEVELS ( SJ

Miami.) Upon receipt of réferenced radiogram,

he was alerted

so to observe ana report any visits oy cuban counter

sers

Identity

groups to that office.

Source

He stated when he heard the CS

receptionist announce the presence of

the

group ne made 1'

duced him to the group as his associate and asked informant

advantase,

to remain and interpret for him.

He also told informant that

he will ask him to translate the press reports If and when

received from this group

Bidentifysource

MM 780:

Systated ROOSEVELTwas continually expecting (E]

the group:

to ask for arms,

money, armed assistance or something

more than moral support, and expressed his amazement that they

had made no such requests when the interview had ended.

The enclosed memo is classified confidential in

order to protect the source.

CORFPOANTIAL

2.

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
FO-Ze D Chove 591-5

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

TAMPA

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

TAMPA

PATAR 5 1964

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

218-2464

MALE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

SA WILLIAM C. HAY

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED EV

dk

ANTI-CASTRO GROUP,

ORLANDO, FLORIDA

(Second

National Front of

Escambray) (SNFE)

(Operation Alpha 66)

IS - CUBA

RA - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

REFERENCE:

at Tampa.

Report of SA MOSES A. ALEMAN, dated 1663-1-0,

LEADS:

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissera

nation mad no Committee:

I's use is limital to arial proceeding

your Comm: ''e and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person

TAMPA DIVISION:

nel without the express approval of the FBl

AT ORLANDO, FLORIDA:

subject organization.

Will follow and TARD'INFORMATION CONTAINED

INFORMANTS:

HEREIN IS URICLASSIFIED

DATE 4-15-94 BY5P8. m AcKs

LOCATION OF INFORMATION

(П-К)

134-306A-7, 10, 13, 14, 17,

ROVED

"JES MAD!

IDENTITY

TP T-1 is PSI (UD)

RICHARD J.

VERANES

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

12-Bureau We 5093-2-1) 6a. (3005- 2018-1-1-42

Mc Pherson

1- INS

Fla

-UNt,

Charleston,

(RM)

(RM)

I-OST

Robins

Ar B,

Ga.

EX-114

1-ÿ:

MERMI FIN

nami

(RM) MAR

9 1964

Coast

Cu

(101)

2023

(105-107)

CAs TRO

ACTIVXT 905-985

61256) (SNIE-ALPHA 66)

Dissemination Record of Attached Report

Notations

acy.

sest Recd.

Copy To: C1AState1620

Fid.

ONI-ORDAROGI

Fwd.

Data

3lil

58 MAR 12 1964

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
TP 105-1982

TP T-2 18 (TP 59-5)

CLASSIFICATION:

134-22A-48, 52.

This report 1s classified Confidential

because it contains information from TP T-I and

TP T-2, above, sources of continuing value, the

disclosure of whose identity could jeopardize

investigationg involving national security and

hamper their future effectiveness.

B*

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
MAR 3: 1 1964

56 APR

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

MEMORAN DUM

ВЛЕСТ :

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-2098-1-1)

SAC, TAMPA (105-1258) (P)

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF ESCAMBRAY

(SNFE)

(OPERATION ALPHA 66 ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

.. CUBA

RA

CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

'(00: Miami)

DATE 7 5-94SS5P8 MAdI5R

Enclosed herewith are twelve copies of Le

Memorandum which has been disseminated locally to INS, OSI,

ONI, G-2 and INTC.

Sources are

as follows:

Sourees

T- 1

83-3.

T-2

52-S.

TP

T-3

PSI

(UD) ANGEL CARREGAL

Attached Letterhead Memorandum

is classified

Confidential because information from TP T-3 could reasonably

result in his identification and jeopardize his future

effectiveness.

Copy to: CIAStátePie, ANDid. DIA CUSto Ms.

Bureau (Enels,

12)

ONIOSIACSIrimmins-coordin Atur

Pur CUb AN APERi ES

(RM) by routing slip for into.

Miami (Enc Is.

(RM)

12 - SNFE-A66

105-6243) Dato 4-7-64

state Dept.

(1 - 105-1742 ANTI FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES)

(1

- 105-MRP)

4 - Tampa

(105-1258)

(1 - 105-1258 SNFE-A66)

(1 - 105-1982 ANTI-CASTRO GROUP, ORLANDO)

(1 - 105-1806 MRP)

FL: e CS

(11)

BEC-2505-12048

4162

EX-114

APR 2 1964

This document is prepared in response to your request and is notator dissemi-

nation outside your Committee.

Its use is

limited to are pfereedinas bi

your Commitre and the content ma.

not 2 disclosed to una itoricer person

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

1964

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
FD-36 (Re:. 10-29-63)

CONFIDENTIAL

FBI

Date:

4664

81197.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668-54mde

Transmit the following in

AIRTEL

ALL INFORMATION CONTAIES in plain text or code)

DSCLASSIFY ON: 25X_

1.1

Via

JFK,

WEDEIS UACLASSIFIER

EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN

(Priority)

- OTHERWISE

415-đ

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI (105-2098-1-1)

Classified by_

Sp0

FROM:

SAC, MIAMI (105-6243)

Declassify ona

without

SECOND NATIONAL FRONT OF

JFK

the

our Commitre:

nation oritside:

SUBJECT:

ESCAMBRAY (SNFE) (OPERATION

ALPHA 66)

IS - CUBA

102 - 4543-1-1 (52

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

Re Miami airtel and enclosed LHM,

dated 3464 an

Tampa airtel and LHM,

22864, captioned "Anti-FIDEL CASTRO

appen cal

Activities. IS - CUBA."

and the content may

Enclosed for the Bureau are 13 copies of an IHM

the.

dated and captioned as above. Copies have been furnished

FB

not be

to San Juan and lampa in view of their interest.

Copies also furnished locally to INS; CIA; G-2,

Mc Pherson, Ga.; Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Department

of State; U.S. Coast Guard; U.S. Customs;

U.S. Customs,

Region II; U.S. Border Patrol; ONI; OSI, 6th Dist.,

Robins Af B,

Ga; and FAA.

This dorment i am in re disso sa teet ostr

-

Soüree

MMIT - 1-IS XOS MM 780s

GONZALEZ (by request)

MM TSA

T-2 1S ARTURO GONZALEZ

The IHM has

been classified confidential to protect sources of continu-

ing value.

disclosed to unauthorized person

is limited to official proceedings by

not for dissemi-

J

Miami

will continue to follow this matter through

appropriate sources and informants.

- Bureau (Enc.

23) ERNFLOSUKN

Tampa (Enc.

1) (RM)

1

San Juan (105-6133) (Enc. 1) (RM)

Sues

Miami

* (1

105-1742

1

- 134(624 Suba Ad (C

1

- 134-902 SUD A

ISD. DIA

-3025

S APR E: 1964

WMD: mp

(10.)

Copy 10: ONSSAS ENS Customs

Approved: ""

Special Agent in Charge

ARR:

1504-8-1

CONFIENTIAL

_M : Per

NAT, wyndo

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
Ki d00 Dut

---

##
---8.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

DATE

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

SAN JUAN

MIAMI

3164-1-2

62-2264-1-2

TITLE OF CASE

REPORT MADE BY

TYPED BY

SECUNDO FRENTE NACIONAL DEL.

WENDELL, W.HALL,

ESCAMBRAY

CHARACTER OF CASE

CIA HAS NO ORIÉCTION TO

DECI

ANDOR

(Second National Front of the

Pia

IAFORMATION

Escambray) (SNFE) (ALPHA 66)

IS - CUBA

IN THIS DOCUMENT,

RA - CUBA

om B 4-21-94

NEUTRALITY MATTERS

REFERENCES

ALL INFORTIATION CONTAINED

Hektin 16 crosss aro

SIlets to Mtamt, 831 and 92864-DATE.4-15-94 BYSPS m ACs R

Milet to San Juan, 9864.

Suairtels to Bureau, 1013,: 1016, 116 and 1217 and 166

MMairtels to Bureau, 1029 and 11964.

Buairtels to Miami and San Juan, 114,

124 and 1464

MMED Of SA WILLIAM MAYO DREW, JR., 12964.

Bulet

to Miami, 1064-1-2

let to Bureau, 1264-1-2.

P

-

LEADS

53116 161

nel without the

your. Comma:

nation outso 7e:

d1t.12

SAN JUAN

pie

expr

arta

AT MAYAGUEZ,

PUERTO RICO:

Will attempt to locate

and interview persons

who may know of the reported training

In Sure an september, Le lie in the joyuda and Anasto anot

Commistae.

This document is preposed in

in June and September, 1964.

respon

APPROVED

Co Pies

2074jcs

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW A 2

No Bureau (205-2098-1-2) (RM)

1- 471st INTC Det., San Juan. (By-

sana 5.048

552 PREC 15

1- OSI, RAFB (RM)

EX

I- ONI, 10th ND, San Juan (By Hand)

I- INS, San Juan (By Hand)

I- US Customs, San Juan (By Hand)

1- US Coast Guard, San Juan (By

11

Hand)

MAN 7. 1965:

2- Miami (105-6243) (RM)

2- San Juan (105-6133)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPOR T

Sere your let. 1364

AGENCY.

REQUEST RECD.

"TE FWD...

HC

v D.

condinata, catca

affairs, stili

sed

Ner802-

connes but

for dissemi-

GE

1-15-65-

2 KEACK

Copies TAles

1965-1-8

w.. COVER

MENT PRINTIMG OFFICE

19-70328-1

1101-20-412

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
SJ 105-6133

Will maintain contact

with established. Cuban sources as

AT SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO well as officials of the

SNFE in Puerto Rico and determine any current activities of

this group in Puerto Rico.

INFORMANTS

Identity

SJ I-1

ANGEL BANOS SANCHEZ

Location

105-6133-453

(By request)

SJ. T-2

134-607A-80 and 82

(SJ 492-S)

SJ

T3

134-743A-13

(SJ: 533-S)

SU T-4

(By request)

BY RE UNTONTO LAY RIVERO

Instant.report

SJ T-5

705-6133-488

(HUBERT MATOS ARALUCE

(By request)

Additional

sources familiarnith certain phases of

Cuban activities in the San Juan area were contacted during

October through December, 1964, and were unable to furnish

any further information concerning the activities of subject

group

They are as follows:

(ES 4E6-S ANd BEI PODIPZO ROCA ROSIELO) Sarce

ADMINISTRATIVE

In the interest of continuity and in an attempt to

centralize all investigation in Puerto Rico in one report

some of the Information set forth in re MMrep dated 12964,

1s also included in instant report.

B-

CO VER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
18-283 018:-1-101.

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

EPORTING OFFICE

DALLAS

TLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

MIAMI

DATE

62865

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOO

69 - 2365

REPORT MADE BY

WALLACE R. HEITMAN

CHARACTER OF CASE

TYPED BY

neg

SECOND NATIONAL. FRONT OF

ESCAMBRAY (GNDE)

(OPERATION ALPHA 66)

IS - CUBA;

RA - CUBA;

NM

REFERENCES:

LEADS

Report of SA WALLACE R. HEITMAN, dated 12364

at

Dallas;

Report of SA WILLIAM NATO DREW, JR., dated

12964 at Miami.

Mis document is mered in reanonse to your request ad in not ir

antion misin

"our Committes.

Its use is limited to ocea

your Concu:

o and the content man not be casclosed to uncutionizoe persor

nel withou the express approval of the fbl

DALLAS

At Fort Worth, Texas:

Will contact ARMANDO GATELL,

president of si FE, to determine

organization at Fort Worth.

"ALL APOR and

this

ADMINISTRATIVE:

HEREIN I5

SSIFIED

DATE 4-15-94_ BY SPS MACUSI

Infornation copies forwarded Houstod

and

San

Antonio UM)

Offices as

there may be delegations of the

SNFE in these territories.

"PROVED

SPIES MADE:

pe T

SPECIAL. AGENT

IS CHANGE

12 - Bureau

(105-2098-1-1) (RM)

1

- INTC, Dallas (RM)

2

INS, Dallas (RM)

1

-

Houston (info) (RM)

1

San Antonio (info) (105-2787) (RM)

3

-

Miami (105-6213) (RM)

2

- Dallas (105-1589)

DISSEMINATION RECORD OF ATTACHED REPORT

NOTATIONS

ENCY.

RUFST RFED.

1EFWD..

SW FWD.

Copy t0:

cr Aslat:7190 7102-10-70l

a Chimins

ONTOSUACSI

by routig, shy for into.

Deto::

65

JOLX81S

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

6111-11-2

JUL i

1365

REG- 17

REC 30

STi T

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
DL 105-1539

INFORMANTS:

Identity of

Informant

DL T-1

MANUEL

RODRIGUEZ ORCARBERRO,

PSI.

DL T-2

Sis

ANTONIO

ALENTADO (PSI -

proposea))

Location

DL 134-332A-6

page 9

Instant report,

_ B*

Cover

Page

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
TO

FRON

SUBJECT:

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

HAY 1082 BRITION

GSA GEN. REG: NO. 27

NO STATES MERSEN SECRET

Memorandum

DIRECTOR, FBI

(105-77667)

"SAC, MIAMI

(109-471) (C)

ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES

IS - CUBA

inne

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR,

RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

IN TRES DO RUMENU

EXCEp T FOR BARCHETE

1-94

DA EMBJULY 29, 1964

2898-9-7

W...

(SH)

Remylet 1163-1-0.

Classifiedby 5p8 maceyse

19167

Declassify on:

JADR

CORTAREE

ALL INFORUATION

SHOWK

BUTEAWISE

i .

It is noted that CUBELA is a Cuban Government Soaried

ficial whose desire to defect was made known by MM 761-S

in June, 1962. Thereafter, CIA apparently made contact

WIth CUBELA In Europe through CARLOS TEPEDINO, 9819 64th Tends i S

venue, kego fark

Queens, New lork, a Cuban exile and U (a Cs) |

long-time friend of MM 761-S, who frequently travels in

Europe JIM

-Source

visited by[CARLOS TEPEDINo that on July 15, 1964, he was

at which time he confided U

certain information concerning CUBELA. He cautioned the

informant to say nothing concerning their conversation

which would permit the information to reach CIA or any

other source through which it might become public, inas-

much as to do so might result in the death of persons in

Cuba, as well as f ERDINO himself #YUl

(TEPEDINO, thereupon confided that he has been((u)

acting as the contact man between CIA and CUBELA. CUBELA

has been assisting both CUBELA and TERRINE EL

According to (TEPEDINO, CUBELA has been constantly g U

complaining to him that CIA refuses to furnish him with

certain necessary equipment

with which he could take some

Bureau (RM)

Miami

105-77667-21

(1 - 109-471)

(1 - 134-379-Sub A) .

THE neb

(4)

SECRET

JUL 80 1964

This document is nrepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi

nation outside vour Committee.

Its use is limited to official proceedings by

your Committce and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-

nel without the express approval of the FBI.

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

##
SECRET

MM 109-471

effective action in Cuba.

According to [REPEDINO] CUBELA (ENU)

desires some sort of compact equipment with which he can

possibly eliminate CASTRO; however, CIA keeps offering

him only large, bulky, unserviceable material.

According to TEPEDINO, there is now under discussior

some plan to kill FIDEL CASTRO, in which CUBELA will figure.

CIA allegedly was formerly in favor of such a plan; however,

inasmuch as Attorney General ROBERT KENNEDY would have no

part of it, it was shelved. Now the plan has allegedly been

brought up

again for consideration.

President JOHNSON

allegedly is aware of it, and has not ruled against it.

If set in motion, it will be scheduled to occur sometime

before the elections in November.

TS

TEPEDINO

to leam much more concerning this plan, other than that

CUBELA is supposed to participate, that it is to be

accomplished by men in Cuba, and possibly someone from

Europe.

The informant advised TEPEDINg did not specifically lu

indicate how he had acquired this information; however, the

informant presumed from his manner of speaking that he had

obtained it from CUBELA.

The above is for the information of the Bureau,

and is not being submitted in form suitable for dissemination

interest to CIA. Dissemination would also lead to the

suur disclosure of (MM 761-S. Although questioned closely,

Soure MM 761-S was not able

o furnish any further details.

SECRET

2.

NW 65994 Docld:7593-32-17
---

