# DOCID-6040-32-33

##
Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54579 Date: 11-24-2021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

5201-6-1

Agency Information

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-90131-10008

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

CR 2-1740-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

MM

TO: HQ

TITLE :

DATE: 1961-10-11

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

REINALDO PICO

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS :

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

4

Redact

1998-09-23

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:6040-32-33
---

##
OPTIONAL SC. 0. 10

50103;04

UNITED STATES GO

i RNMENT

Mèmorandum

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE:

OCT 1 1 1961

SAC, MIAMI (105-new)

SUBJECT

UNIDAD PARA LA GUERRA

(UNITY FOR WAR)

NEUTRALITY MATTERS; -IS - CUBA

K0217

Enclosed herewith are 9 copies of a letterhead

memorandum, captioned as above.

The source in this letterhead memorandum is

PSI WILFREDO ROBIANA, Miami. The Miami Office wishes to

point out that REINALDO PICO and MIRTO COLLAZO were

formerly members of the Cuban Prison Exchange Commission,

whose defection from that Commission in May, 1961, caused

considerable controversy among the anti-FIDEL CASTRO,

Prime Minister of Cuba, elements in the USA. The defection

of these two individuals, according to PSI WILFREDO

ROBIANA, caused considerable dissension among Cuban

exiles in Miami and brought about and contributed towards

disunity. PSI ROBIANA stated that both COLLAZO and PICO

are in favor of direct military action on the part of

the Cuban exiles in Cuba and that the organization, Unidad

Para La Guerra (Unity for War), has been organized

for the

purpose of furthering such direct military action in

Cuba.

Miami indices contain no identifiable information

concerning the newly formed organization, Unidad Para La

Guerra.

Bureau

(Engsi E) (RM)

- Miami

(2g 105-new; 1 - 105-4098, Cuban Prisoner Exchange;

- - 105-1742, Anti Communist Activity;

1 - 134-518, Sub A.)

MCI-LL N

1240-1-2-1

REG- 72

LIN OPERATION CONTAINED

IS UNCLASSIE LEU

DAT 62215 BY 5608 Ole GAT

JFK

NW 64578 Docld:6040-32-33_Page 2

---

