# DOCID-6088-32-10

##
Date: 0896-0-5

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY:

CIA

RECORD NUMBER

: 104-10003-10196

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

201-9248-2-8

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

: STAFF OFFICER,

SRCIR

TO : MEMO FOR THE RECORD

TITLE : REPORT OF TELEPHONE CONVERSATION.

DATE: 1964-0-3

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS : KRAMER, MONICA

PHOTO SLIDE

SOLVANG, CA

DOCUMENT TYPE:

CLASSIFICATION

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 1493-0-6

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS : OSW9:35B 1993.06.14.15:02:23: 0000-8-1: 20F3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NVy

65924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:6088-32-10
---

##
19 March 1964

MEMO FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Report of Telephone Conversation

1. On 19 March 1964, at approximately 1530 hours, Shirley

Stetson, DOOS operations Support Branch telephonically reported

the following to the undersigned:

a.

She had just received a teletape answer from the Los

Angeles 00 Field Office regarding the undersigned's request

for a specific date and place of contact with Mrs. Monica

F. Kramer and the specific date on which the Agency received

the "now famous" color slide from Mrs. Kramer.

b. Unfortunately, the 00 case officer who handled this

contact has been transferred to the 00 Denver Field

Office and is presently out on maternity leave.

c. No contact reports are kept by 00 on one-time contacts

such

as the one with Mrs. Kramer.

d.

A probable, but not definite, date of the contact with

Mrs. Kramer, as estimated by the 00 Los Angeles Field Office

is 7 March 1962. The place of contact was Solvang, California.

e. The L.A. Field Office has in its files a copy of a letter

sent to Mrs. Kramer by the 00 case officer. In this letter,

which was dated 17 March 1962, the case officer states "I'm

looking forward to receiving your slides." This would imply

that the slides were not procured at the personal contact

onor about 7 March.

. The L.A. Field Office sent Mrs. Kramer's slides to Hqs

on 30 April 1962.

15

g. This

as definite an answer as we can expect to get on this

matter. However, if

anything more specific is received at

00, Shirley will let the undersigned know soonest.

2. Shirley promised to send a copynof the L.A. Field Office

teletape to the undersigned.

SRCIR

-SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:6088-32-10
---

