# DOCID-6886-32-33

##
Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection act of

1.992 144 USC 2107 Notel. Caset Nud

54578 Date: 11-24-2021

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2015-6-2

FBI'

124-90135-10281

HQ

105-82298-113

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SA

HQ

DATE : 1961-03-10

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS :

ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-09-25

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

AT

v9.1

NW 64578 Docld:6886-32-33
25

---

##
SA 105-2118

GRET

of information obtained during initial interview conducted

on 21461, were contained in referenced San Antonio airtel

to Bureau,

21761.

All interviews of the subject were

conducted by SAS CLAY ZACHRY, JR. and JESSE R. HAGY.

SA T-I, mentioned in the enclosed letterhead

memorandum, is CAMILO PADREDA VASQUEZ, former member

of the Cuban Bureau for the Repression of Communist

Activities, who furnished the information to the Legal

Attache, Madrid, per letter 72960, from

Legal Attache,

Madrid,

to the Bureau.

(See report of SA THOMAS H.

ERRION, 11360, at Miami, captioned,

"CHANGED: ELOY

GUTIBRREZ MENOYO, aka, Kiko Pernas, IS - CUBA"')

memorandum, is JULIEN VERNIMEN, Belgian Security

1, 7-3 an 10a6

SA T-2, mentioned in the enclosed letterhead

Service, who furnished the information on 2860-1-2,

to the Legal Attache, Paris. (See Legal Attache, Paris,

letter to Director,

11161, captioned, "ELOY GUTIERREZ

MENOYO, aka, IS - CUBA")

The subject appeared completely cooperative

during the interviews and at no time refused to answer

questions.

It was the opinion of interviewing agents

that GUTIERREZ probably told the truth with regard to

the bulk of the information furnished by him, and that

if he did distort any information, or lie about any

particular topic, that it would have been concerning

his activities in Europe during the summer of 1960,

and his alleged connections with anti-FRANCO and anti-

SALAZAR activities. It was noted that GUTIERREZ corroborated

almost in full information which was developed by the Bureau

at the time he visited the United States in the fall of

1959, and that numerous other items of information fur-

nished by him appeared to corroborate information de-

veloped concerning him by the Miami Office.

xiu)

The San Antonio Office does not feel, however,

that it is possible to make a definite statement as to

-2-

SECRET

NW 64578 Docld:6886-32-33
---

