# DOCID-2008-34-43

##
Date :

Page

:

2398-0-1

1

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORDS SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

INSCOM CSF

194-10013-10321

DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

ZF0003-0-0W - PAGE 1373

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

FROM

USA

HANNA,

JAMES M

TO :

TITLE : REPORT

DATE

: 1757-0-6

PAGES

:1

SUBJECTS : SLOVODA, VLADIMIR

BULSON, BRIAN

REPORT OF FINDINGS

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT. STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 2095-0-3

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

Heleased under the John F. Kenned!

Mosassination Records Collection 4ct of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:Nvy

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

***

***

***

* *

*W*

* I*

* T*

*H*

*D*

*R*

*A*

*W*

*A*

* I*

* *

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

*

***

**

NW 66000 Docld:2008-34-43.
---

##
CONFIDENTIAL

AGENT. REPORT

(SR 380-320-10)

1. NAME OF SUBJECT OR TITLE OF INCIDENT

BULSON, Brian (U)

Spr 0094-22-55

British National

4. REPORT OF FINDINGS

2. DATE SUBMITTED

17 June 1957

3. CONTROL SYMBOL OF FILE NUMBER

VIII-23704

Source "A-VIII" revealed that Premier Otto Grotewohl received

a letter addressed to him at the Russian Embassy, Berlin (UU9220), East

Germany, postmarked 11 June 1957, from Mrs. L. Bulson, SUBJECI's mother,

who resides at 23 Ruth Street, Bargoed Glam, South Wales, Great Britain.

The letter stated

as follows;

"23 Ruth St

Bargoed Glam

South Wales, Great Britain

21 April 1957

Dear Sir;

Once again I am writing to you, but this time I am sending

it back to Berlin with a person who is living there, but has been stay-

ing here for a holiday. I thought perhaps you are more sure of getting

this letter if it was posted in Berlin than if it was posted here. Will

you please send my son back home to us. He is in Bautzen, Wall Str 4

He is the only one we have, and we have not seen him since Xmas 1954.

Perhaps he is afraid to come back here, because he was in the British

Army.

He may think that he will get punished, but that is not so., Please

send him back and please will you tell him that everything will be al-

right if he comes home again. Please will you do this for his father and

I because we want him home so much.

He is all we have and we don't want

to lose him.

Yours Faithfully

My son's name is Brian Bulson. His address at present Bautzen Wall Str 4

Mrs L Bulson

--S.A.--

PS Please will you send mé a reply to the address on front of letter."

A photostatic copy of the letter is attached as EXHIBIT

1373

5. TYPED NAME AND ORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL AGENT

6. SIGNATURE OF SPECIAL AGENT

JAMES M. HANNA, 66th CIC Gr OUP

tames In Hansea

DA, APR2 341

REPLACES NO CONFIDEN ALSO.

AGL (1) 12-52-200M-30093

NW 66000 Docld:2008-34-43
---

