# DOCID-2809-32-31

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10325-10058

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-99938-23

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM: HQ

TO: AFOSI

TITLE :

DATE:

1971-08-24

'PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

CUBAN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS :

1B; 1C

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-10-08

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF AFOSI

COMMENTS :

INC LTR

v9.1

; NW 66000 Docld:2809-32-31
Date:

2015-4-9

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

SEOOD Date: 11-03-2021

---

##
SECRET

__ Mr Wannall

. - Mr. Belanger

SECRET,

(NI) 105-99938 - 23

REC-15

DE-S

To:

Indefinite

Re Vi EWED

Crossed by l7652

GDS,

Exempt fresh

Date of Doclassific

2197

2 1

JUL

SVC

COURIER

AUG

August 24, 1971

E1764-2-2

BURGE SEOKS OCEANISAT

Offico of Special Investigations

Department of the Air Force

Attention: Chief, Counterintelligence Division

From:

John Edgar Hoover, Director

9841-31-121198

ASSIED BY 5668- Sellmac

Subject:

PROPOSED INDUCED OPERATION

(U)

DECLASSIRY

CLASS

DEMYNEIR DTD 7-15-98

ererence is lade to your Letter in the captionedsom

atter, your reference OSITe (07D127-012>] which was received S.

on August 18, 1973 (V

The situation which existed at the time of our

exchange of correspondence in October, 1970, appears to have

dissipated in recent weeks.

The Cuban Mission to

the United

Nations (CHUN) has been quite receptive to visitors In recent

Weeks atthough some restrictions are still being imposed on

distribution of literature by

CHUN personnel to domestie sub-CS

versive groups.

We bellove

it would be appropitate at this time for

your Office to discuss the details of your proposal with our

involved field offices.

As you are aware, our Miami Office

covers homestead Air force. Base; our lampa office covers

contact from your office, and they will be in a position to

discuss this matter without restriction and to keep our head-

quarters informed ot alt developnents.

Ot course;' you may feel

free to contact FBI headquarters at any time you desire.

Tolson

Felt

We

Sullivan

appreciate your interest in undertaking this

Mohr

Bishop.

operation, and you may be assured of our continuing cooperation. (w

Brennan, C.D.

Callahan -

Casper

1

- Miami (Enclosure)

DONES

Conrad

1

New York (Enclosure)

SECRET

SEE NOTE TO SACS PAGE TWO

Dalbey

Gale

1

- Tampa (Enclosure)

CHOUD 1

Pender

excluded iron automatio

Rosen

Tavel

A RAM: d Iw (8)

downgrading and

SEE NOTE PAGE TWO

Walters

Soyars,

Tele Room"

SEP 1

doclassification

Holmes

Gandy

Belle

MAIL ROOM.

2m. 600

TELETYPE UNITI

NW 66000 Docld:2809-32-31
---

##
SECKEI

Office of Special Investigations

Department of the Air Force

SECRET

NOTE FOR SACS:

Single copies of referenced Air Force letter are

enclosed for recipients. All offices have had prior experiences

with similar operations

and it is expected that any proposal

by Air Force will be thoroughly analyzed with positive recon-

mendations promptly forwarded to the Bureau.

If Air Force is

able to produce a competent serviceman who is agreeable to

undertaking the assignment,

we should carefully consider the

Air Force proposal and lend our support to the operation wherever

Teasible.

NOTE:

Classified "Secret, Group I" since this involves very

sensitive operation against an enemy diplomatic establishment, s

nauthorized disclosure of which could seriousiv alfect nationa

defense interests.

In past we

have had some limited success with "walk-in" (5)

operations involving military personnel visiting CHUN f Or

various reasons. In 1070 Air Force proposed sending Cuban-LS.

bom serviceman

into CMUN and offering a document for sale

based on either desire for money or an affinity for the Cuban

regime. At the time we discouraged the plan, as we had just

rranged Ior State Department to declare the two top intelligence S

Pficers at the CMUN persona non grata and the entire complement

at the CMUN was very nervous and suspicious. We have noted a S!

mary person an

general relaxation, as indicated, and we feel now would be an

opportune time to try the plan, if it can be made to appear

" logical.

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:2809-32-31
---

##
-

DEPARTURES!

THE AIR FORCE

HEADQUARTERS UNITED STATES AIR FORGE

WASHINGTON, D.C.

REPLY TO

ATTN OF:

[os IE (07D127-012)] (5)

SUBJECT:

Proposed Induced Operation (U)

Honorable J. Edgar Hoover

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation

United States Department of Justice

Attn: Domestic Intelligence Division

Stamnall

Mr. Tolson -

Mr. Felt-

Mr. Sultan

Мг. Віков-

Mr. Brendane,p.

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Casper

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Dalbey

Mr. Gale -

Mr. Ponder

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Tavel -

Mr. Walters

Mr. Soyars

Tele. Room

Miss Holmes

Miss Gandy

1. (U) Reference is made to our letter of 19 October 1970, file and

subject as above, and to your letter of 27 October 1970, file (NI)

105-99938.

2. (S) The essence of our letter was to suggest for your considera-

tion and analysis an operationi targeting the Cuban Intelligence Service

(Cub Is). The basic scenario entailed an Air Force asset, Laf Cuban CS_

birth or descent, stationed at Homestead AFB or Mc Dill AFB, Florida

walking in to the Çuban Mission to the United Nationg and offering al S

document for sale based on either monetary or ideological motivation.

Our stated objectives were: (a) (the acceptance of our controlled asset

by the Cub IS as a credible espionage agent, (b) a determination of -

Cub IS EEls directed against USAF installations in Florida, (c) a deter-LS_

mination of Cub IS MO in handling USAF assetsand, (d) a determination S

of the degree of cooperation between the Cubl S and the Soviet Intelligence

Services.J S]

3. (S) Your Bureau's evaluation of the proposal was that such an opera-

ion possessed minimal chance of success at that time in light of the the

recent persona non grata action taken by the United States Government ES.

against two EMUN officials. It was concluded this action would atiect

Cub ISioperations for many months to come Jand make the chance for LS

success of any walk-in to the CMUN unlikely. CS

14 (U)D Wel WBla appreciate your current analysis of the operational

climate and your views on the scenario outlined above.

71

124

TROY C

TUCKER, JR., Colonel,

105-99938-23

Directorate of, Special Investigations (g)

FRF

BRACKETED INTO

U7. DTD.

62002 3

7-15-98

CLASS

Downgraded at I12 year s Oe SR

DECLASSIFY ON: 25

satormals; not

7-24-98

sutomatically declarested o FK

JH Anderurite Your Country's Might - Buy U.S. Savings Bonds"

SECRET

AUG

Seas!

NW 66000 Docld:2809-32-31
---

