# DOCID-4111-32-40

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10330-10126

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

PROJF ILES-CORRESPONDENCE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : J. BARRY HARRELSON

LAURA DENK

MF: CIA-IR-18, REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON A PARTICULAR

DATE

PAGES

1998-08-17

2

SUBJECTS : REQUEST

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE,: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 1304-0-1

COMMENTS : JFK-M-15 : F5 :

0112-20-04-3827-10-3

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R]

- ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10330-10126

NW 65990 Docld:4111-32-40
---

##
SECRET

17 August 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk

Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:

SUBJECT:

J. Barry Harrelson

JFK Project Officer, HRPOIM

CIA-IR-18, Request for Information on

a

Particular DO Office

1. (U) This is in response to referent request.

2. (S) This request involved the so-called Defector

Staff.

The DO has advised that only a classified response

is possible with respect to this staff and advised as

follows:

A. That staff is listed in Clandestine Services

Notice 5-50, revised October 1959 and 1963 and

carried the

symbol DDPCDC (CIA Defector Coordinator). Only soviet

cases were handled by the staff. The staff was a

predecessor of the present group, the Defector Program Group

(DPG) .

B. The Defector and Contract Personnel Branchg

was designated SROSD.

This branch handled only Soviet

Bloc defector cases (countries of the former Warsaw Pact)

C .

The Defector Program Group noted above is the

focal point within the DO and Intelligence Community for the

conduct of the US defector program in accordance with DCID

41-1.

The program encompasses the identification,

exploitation, movement, handling and resettlement of aliens

of interest to the Intelligence Community. The DIG

represents the Deputy Director of Operations providing

advice, supervision,

and coordination within the DO

regarding walk-ins and other, Public Law, Section 110

defector refugees, and

asylum seekers of intelligence

interest. The DPG chairs the DCI's ten member Interagency

Defector Committee, the members being drawn from both the

intelligence community and other government agencies.

3.

(U) The Agency believes. that the above is fully

responsive to subject request

and in thus closing its action

on it. If you have any questions, please advise.

J. Barry Harrelson

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:4111-32-40
---

##
SECRET

CL BY:

1637-06-1

CL REASON:

1.5 (C)

DECL. On :

X1

DRV:

MIS

1-87

SECRET

NW 65990 Docid:4111-32-40
---

