# DOCID-8529-32-35

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10109-10426

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: CHIEF, ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFF

TO

CHIEF,

WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

TITLE

LOSS OF US CITIZENSHIP OF BERNARD BARKER.

DATE

1964-08-07

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS

: CITIZENSHIP

BARKER, B.L.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

1097-0-7

COMMENTS

:JFK40: F13: 1997.07.10.17:37:38:3106-7-6

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

192(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:N

1924 Date: 10.26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10109-10426

NW 65924 Docld:8529-32-35
---

##
2004

- STA1

Chief, Westem Hemisphere Division

ATTN :

Mr. Walter Richardson, Security Officer

Director of Security

Bernard L. BARKER - #1333-2-0

7 August 1964

1. Reference is made to your memorandum of

5 August 1964, concerning loss of U. S. Citizenship

of the subject.

2. It is the opinion of this Staff that at this late

date subject has no recourse to overtum the Depart-

ment of State's ruling that he lost his U. S. Citizen-

ship by his accepting employment in the Cuban Govem-

ment. To protect the U. S. Citizenship of an individual

who engages in activities which would normally expatriate

himself requires prior agreement between this Agency and the

Department of State. This was not done in subject's case.

Then, too, subject, by his application for and acceptance of

an immigration visa to enter the U.S. as a permanent resi-

dent alien, is in effect, an admission by him of loss of his

previous U. S. Citizenship.

3. As a permanent resident alien he must await the

expiration of five years residence before he can petition

for naturalization unless a private bill were introduced to

waive the residence requirement.

4. It is believed that a review of subject's file at the

Department of State would not reveal any information

which would change subject's status.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

(5

W. M. Knott

Chief, Alien Affairs Staff

OSAASJLMWMK:es 7 Aug 64

6121-0-4

NW 65924 Docld:8529-32-35
---

