# DOCID-6662-32-40

##
104-10167-10017

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55987 Date: 10-28-2021

28 Septories 2860

МОВАЙРИМ РОЗ ТЫВ ВЕРОНО

Ca Re (209) 3002 (J 17920), el sopranter 1060

20-

Lo VIDAN 18 DAS i BATTOO SATO RAS ACIAO NOR 125-21158 TO DO t O Min AS

nos there to stay vitis Bleardo torto, 1t 8as thousit 18 alent be post to

CATERIA t O STE SPO LOXLA un blo assoclason. I talephonos sojas li

Is TE JErt ma Ro Boptander, taiss the lactedlola recamition papaco fiver

10 Патамоі 501 РОГАТИВОR, 801 48 RСT80s 49 808 О: 19 Кавладьо та

DO 8 8Nt 01EA BOTRA PUT EUVETRA DONTA LA EDA EDer At ONd Oriton Rusel

Intending to estsallad a pintare ol himsalt de a coulose nutral arong

revocod sno soset es tien of fares yume rescluiionarton of the tipe: ving

DON ERLA DO tha ALLENDO d O LIt Er Rei DO, t EO 1200 thencelina rajoot Ing coo

rosanted by the Fal.

Ba in mull amentated with tus blatasy of the tiles

post in tha for Ta BIon of tha Vi D, sha laitin velestina or samosod to

EUTROCODE ESO MIR, DES MONT DECAIIDA INFOY NI CASSER FIO OPLIE CL LUS 8218

11th the FED. Da pro Dented tha ason I RIgusaut i Da SIs NU I Ad Ende e

to a polin -s repretaring rajy tie ors vioua sna trictasta lo the 1ta,

LETEOLY DO CLO e SCl EURRA D Si TE NER LAFAr ASÃO. 19015 DEJUSADO, Mi LOn Tha

Be V. II presented is djas an Xe Te ever board 15, 19 ascerdia.

taken entriolas notice es the fees Bhas die Ai R discitento, so celles,

SAT:)

Rains ayrus as dengia chast die taara tino und eato that the led

tulind tien a surene of choen gemple in lian York the say botoro. Re

at be military ayro, one ming dunded mi di recria or those desperanade

vatro d Ired babanen duo yound poraladáenandas dad the FM, da t O As S 100

told him thno agreed ith hin the hit I taunt that tea ondulan

te arenat and lint tanta poerámi toula di pao to good 40e.

treme lee

inin duato Ayuro se do cunt di shole Dol1y2sal saptrasono dão ustag

Minto malitary syppo son vinietiresadas and pullulani bargaining saddel:

RETURN TO CLAYER

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce

NW 65987 Docld;6662-32-40
---

##
104-10167-10017

"in8 b A COLO t O YOUR FOROL 11304T1AS, PINNIRS IN 101A1IRI 3001-20-6-01

o8 al.

Was thay fater to as "Los Vla Jo".

1186 "103 T1ajoo" la posar lsas cuba Mall id's daciasus tontino tie all

pree. I said thai ltle tien os los una enaricioiy cocirary do tia son

BELA b Y DOSt ELO CODAIIOT SOL SO De Li LA:sie cuidorably for do soo

Lario 1 added So Rt 1r 19889 goca Le vene Diy fare lu the left, dosy voad

DO a BONTOs i PATIOSA POTTY t O the U, Do judinaião lojas abategod the

"suajoel.

When I reoprajod

t8a8 the U. So COPUFTDELE UNO NUt JUVORBIRS DUY ITOUP, ROJAS JUST ONETEENO.

de. surt co to day tsat 19 dapport could De jirca to ldúlridual6, Lo' so

the ediscary typer be hed vend no do cars a pruada to she Alle

Por ex Cap Lo, do a MOLe ar ORal Ent ICs illar A ul Crisy Aguaro pitcal),

tase voall not muly dain the 60191ce, at lery valradi poopla la tea

I1648

assinot dosiro tet alest ou dia dame of thirdid stanlildy los the setera.

no perrino ets thas I I liba your ruro utina los milo do mun sojested by she

Pão are Boltina so those pilarte ai coutrilita da mie ratzadadro cirugglo,

they thi supresage a bustenin asts naticar cule cismat tor the saturo,

unlen conlo to Tory darning to U.s. on stagine. X tbisk shoro 10 8

de vas told tant the Fi D

appsures do le the dion untoin dod dis ginstrut cruunication and mreasees

auparoir potoutsal fun unecoos, ase dare ail smearind pould bo sell ado

vued to noone 16 8ed 19nre 49e5 1i.

Hejan aull that ho had e 7508-1-9

the fealton apesy the yeepy reunuclang les me teching too moon can duo

manhatty peat the 212.

do said lia

teal that thag bare sets vernai ou. by al'-contin A p Ollidedo, a 22015

Mannere 3.018

winess dr this they ana difurangi

0838-11-5469 Bad 4100

Mujao tiban sarisaaded tiat perhaps 1 noudo Do 1110-5-1u to

*428

no sterops to reduce tour dafturatone 1a coedianiled solnatonialio and

00000NMEAn 8164

the flies a gold. his dirl. tis INo an 100re09l 6008-04-0

NW 65987 Docld:6662-32-40
---

##
104-10167-10017

pestaro vi Es la osteral Erespo, la sol and til fuse derosa lomaltat.

ROJOS SALd I A TIRES SULA SO DE BERTRA DI: 1O LOM:: (ATTE SE LDA LESLOLADEI

8son.

DA ESTER DO, I DUETASTES MAY ALEDE CORAILOS DOROIRITE RA SOTTIRO

En all E, Reso Dogatadscated, estura lifulioal Ma Jo d Eay OULA tr ES

o TAp TAs Er A des la ebase Opert Ereo so tue PAU

"oald 8D3908 8598

DALLATA REAS DOSSO INEANLASALY MENTAl LY TONY DIEDALS da NASO POLA. Cora

ONDATVADO, DA PIERA 80 TOMALO LA BETOPO ODI BITEETÀ SO PLAS NEPIONEDE

68859.

fiand do dented de V1ll.otay uido iirlo, aboco Do U pacaa razza

RANID . REICHHAPDT

SARsa LA (88 80g8 1960)

D1a1585-95-83658

30 QUA

11 e fintas dOd0268

1 A MAJOPA CUMERO

NW 65987 Docld:6662-32-40
---

