# DOCID-2019-32-21

##
Date: 1293-0-8

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

WC

RECORD

NUMBER

: 179-40006-10119

RECORDS SERIES

11: GA 1 CIA

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : HELMS, RICHARD

TO : RANKIN, J. LEE

TITLE :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE : 2264-0-5

PAGES : ?

SUBJECTS :

ASSASSINATION, KENNEDY, JOHN, TELEPHONE CALLS TO US EMBASSY

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS: REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS

: P

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

BOX C02

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 66000 Docld:2019-32-21
---

##
C8012

SENSITIVE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED

The CLA Station in Canierra, on 27 November, furnished

all available information oi the 1962 telephone call. It appears

that source on that occation utated that "Iron Curtain Countries"

planned to pay a hundred thousand dollars for the assassination

of President Kennedy.

c. On 27 November, iê Ci A Canberra Station also furnished

complete dotail on the ancrymous telophose call of 23 November 1963.

. On 29 November, Cl A disseminated this information, as

supplied by its Canberra Station, to the White House, Department

of State, and federal Buroau of Investigation, with a copy to the

Secret Service. A copy of this dissemination in its exact text

is attached to this memcrandum.

4. The CIA Station in Canberra arranged for discussion of the

calls with the Australian security service. In the opinion of the

Australian authorities, the caller was a crank. In any event, they

were not able to identily any Polish einployee of the Soviet Embassy.

the automobile described by the caller as the one he diove, or the

license plato number given by kim. No furthor information on this

call has been received. Available evidence would tend to show that

the caller was some typo of crank. This conclusion, howaver, cannot:

be confirmed.

5. Please note that the nature of the information in thie

memorandum and its attachment requires iie use of a sensitivity

indicator.

(Signed) Richard Helms

Richard Helms

Deputy Director for Plans

Attachment

-2:

SACRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from autematic

WARNING NOTICE

SENSITIVE SOURCES. AND

METHODS INVOLVED

INW 66000 Đocld:2019-32-21
---

