# DOCID-1315-32-26

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7201-1-0

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10105-10384

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

4447-0-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

HSCA

TODD, JAMES ROBERT

Best avat-abie image

DATE:

1978-05-09

PAGES:

12

SUBJECTS :

HAMMOND, SUE

TODD, JAMES ROBERT

RUBY, JACK; BACKGROUND; DESCRIPTION AND

IDENTIFICATION

LEADS AND INFORMATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 1993-08-08

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Attached copy of criminal record. Box 258.

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
KENNEDY.

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

4447-0-1

1.

Identifying Information:

Name JAMES ROBERT TODD

Address 8J4 DATES OR

CityState DAll As TX

Date of Birth 12-10-19

Social Security 462-03- 413

2. Physical Description:

Height 5-

Weight 16 5

Ethnic Group W

Date MAj 9, 1978

Place 267 11. Exchaw GEPL,

Telephone 21y 369-6585

Mor S

M

Spouse

Children

Color Eyes Blue

Special Characteristics.

Hair GREV_

3.

Personal History:

:a.

Present Employment: SEIf Emp Lo YED (OIL LENSES)

Address 6116 N. Exp RESSWAy

Telephone

4.

b.

Criminal Record

1. Arrests MAN

2. Convictions

HEUHEAST TERO

Additional Personal Information:

a.

Relative(s): Name SERay BIESEl

Address 267 N. Exchance Park

Dall As t X

b. Area frequented:

C. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26.
Noy 9,1578

Form #4-B

---

##
KENNEDY

SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

Name James Robert Todd

2834 Cates Dr

Address

24380ak D

Date May 9, 1978

Time 10:15 a.m.

Dallas, Texas

Place

Offices of his attorney

26T.. N. Exchange St.

(357-5676)

Interview: On May 9, 1978 Staff Investigators Joseph j. Basteri

and Albert Maxwell interviewed James Robert Todd in the offices

of his attorney Jerry Biesel. Mr. Todd states that he is

self-

employed and heads the Todd Oil and Investment Co. Inc., located

at 6116 North Central Expressway, Dallas, Texas. (Tel:4369-2-1-6585) :

Todd states that he was bom in Groesbeck, Texas and came

to Dallas in 1939 and was arrested soon after as he was mistaken

for Henry Noble, a known criminal in the area. While in jail he

met Lois Green and their friendship continued until Lois Green

was

killed by an unknown assailant on December 24, 1949.

While mention was made that Lois Green headed a gang that

was operating in and about the Dallas area, Todddid not subscribe

to this description of Lois Green. Todd states that the Green

gang is nothing but propaganda generated by the local press.

There was no such organized crime but only a group of fellows

who hung out together. These

men may have committed crimes

together but it was not under the direction of Lois Green.. A

few minutes later, while dening organized crime existed in Dallas,

he remarked that whenever

Interviewer Signature

ted,

move in we would

visit

Justeu

Typed Signature Joseph J. Basteri and Albert Maxwel

Date

transcribed Rife 5-24-78

BY:

Form

#4-A

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
James Robert Todd Interview

Page

2.

these persons to inform them that Dallas is their territory

and for them to get out of town

and find their own territory.

Todd admitted that in the 30's and early 40's Dallas was

a wide open town until a reform district attorney by the name

of Will Wilson cleaned up the town.

To illustrate how he and Lois Green had no law enforcement

or political connections, Todd suggested we check their arrest

records which will

disclose the countless times they had been

arrested for vagrancy. He pointed out that if anyone had any

connections

they would certainly not be harrassed by the police

department in such a manner.

Todd answered that he does not know the following named

persons: Irwin Weiner, Lenny Patrick, Sam Yaras, Barney Baker,

Harry Hall, Alex Gruber, Ralph Paul, Robert Ray Mc Keown, Andrew

Armstrong, Tom Eli Davis III, William Cies, Harry Olsen and

James Braden. His answer as to his relationship with the fol-

lowing persons are:

Lewis Mc Willie - Only knew him as a crap player and gam-.

bler.

Never associated with him.

George Senator - Only knew him as a person who would sell

clothing; has bought: a few suits from him.

George Butler - Only knew him as a police officer and he

was

always "tailing me."

Morgan Brown - Todd said he met him for the first time two

or three months ago in Dallas. The meeting concerns some

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
James Robert Todd Interview

Page 3.

oil properties that a doctor friend of his invested

30,000 in. After some negotations by Toda, Morgan re-

turned the 30,000 back to the doctor.

William Decker - Only knew him as a police officer.

He

had a reputation of being a good, firm man. Word was

also out that Fritz

was not a man to fool around with.

Jettie Bass - He is dead now. Died of a heart attack a

few years ago. He was an Indian.. Todd knew him as a

burglar.

Nick Cascio - Describes him as a very nice guy until some-.

one crosses him and then he could be very tough. Has

known him for 35 years.

Todd last saw him three or four

months ago and is in bad health with cancer. He said

Cascio was a burglar.

Angelo Thomas Casten-States he only knows him from the

Dallas area.

Hollis de Lois Green - Has known him since 1939 and lists

him as one of his best friends. He would not go into too.

much detail as to what type association they had but only

constantly praised Lois Green

as being a "great guy."

Ray Brondo - A used car salesman; hasn't seen him in 25

years.

R.D. Mathews

- Todd states he knew Mathews very well. When

we attempted to question him regarding any illegal acti-

vity he and Mathews were engaged in during the Green.

Todd replied, "Let's just say we were social friends

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
James Robert Todd Interview

Page

4.

and leave it at that."

James Henry Dolan - Only knew him as a casual friend.

Paul Roland Jones - Had known him for two or three years:

Did not know too much about him but questioned the fact

that Ruby associated with Jones. Todd said that Jones

was not the type to have Ruby around him because of his

(Ruby's) association with the police.

Joe Bonds - Todd said he knew him as a night club operator

and that Lois Green was killed outside of Bond's night

club.

Campisi - Todd said he is just a guy who runs a restaurant.

Never associates with him but has eaten in his restaurant.

It must be noted that Todd was purposely vague about describ-

ing details of the persons that he was associated with. He also

would not go into too many facts concerning any illegal activi-

ties with the exception of admitting to two crimes that he had

committed. One was for the crime of homicide and the other was

a burglary. He was convicted and served time for both crimes.

The detáils Todd gave concerning his homicide arrest was as fol-

lows: Todd stated that on September 3, 1953, while seated in

, a restaurant, a man entered, and without any provocation, pro-

ceeded to cut Todd on the side of his throat and other parts of

his body. Todd ran outside, bleeding profusely, obtained a gun

fr Om R.D. MATHEWS, fired one shot into the air to make certain

the gun was in working order and then entered the premises and

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
James Robert Todd Interview

Page 5.

shot said assailant to death. He was arrested and served two

years for this crime. On November 22, 1961 he received a full

pardon for this crime. The other crime Todd admitted to was

when he was arrested for burglary by throwing a rock through a

window and stealing 500 which he gave to a friend who needed

the money.

Todd denied ever being engaged in safe cracking activities

although his arrest record discloses 4

arrests for transporting

explosives indicating the arrests may have been for carrying

nitro, an explosive commonly used by safe crackers for blowing

up safes.

Since the death of Lois Green in 1949 Todd said he began

to break away from what he was doing and decided to get a job.

He worked at different places until finally he went into the

oil business

and has

been extremely successful. in that field.

Mr. Biesel, Todd's

attorney, had quoted to us during an earlier

interview that Todd is now a millionaire. He heads the

located at 6116 North Expressway, Dallas,

Texas.

When asked about Sue's Used Car Lot, Todd replied that he

was very familar with the place as he worked

there as a sales-

man for several years. The car

lot was operated by Sue Souther-

land who later married Harry Hammond. They are still married

and she is presently the Vice President of the Merchants Bank.

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
James Robert Todd Interview.

Page

6.

Todd

described Sue Hammond as an extremely honest person who

would never be involved in any dishonest act.

Todd denied

that the Sue's Used Car Lot was used as a hangout for his

cronies and that while there they planned illegal activities.

Todd denied these charges, explaining that the purpose he ob-

tained this job for was to offset the frequent arrests

for va-

grancy that he was receiving from the Dallas Police Department.

He also would not allow any of his friends to use these premises

for a hangout out of respect for Sue Hammond as he knew she

would not approve of it and he did not want her to get into

trouble.

According to Todd, he does not remember what year or under

what circumstances he met Jack Ruby. He describes their asso-

ciation as being so casual that he really cannot recall any de-

tails of even when he last saw him. Todd could not explain or

understand how Ruby would have his phone number in his possession

as he does not believe

he ever gave his phone number to Ruby.

Todd admits to being in the Silver Spur several times and had

visited the Vegas Club. He thinks he remembers Eva Grant as

being at the door of the Vegas Club. Todd strongly denied hav-

ing any dealings or associations with Ruby. He would explain

that when he met Ruby in the street he would exchange greetings

and continue: to walk as Ruby would always try to stop and engage

him in a social conversation. Todd characterized Ruby as al-

ways being in the

police station on social calls and he was

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
James Robert Todd Interview

rage

7.

extremely friendly with police officers. On the other hand,

Todd said he and his friends wanted nothing to do with police

officers and stayed as. far away from them as possible. Todd

could not conceive of Ruby being associated with anyone in-

volved in any criminal organization with him (Ruby) being so

closely associated with the police department. The fear was

always there that Ruby could be a police informant, so stated

Todd.

Todd answered the questions rather freely and we were never

cautioned by his attorney, Jerry Biesel, as to the type of

questions being asked.

The interview ended with Todd suggest-

ing, if needed, we can again call him and he would be willing

to speak to us again.

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
THE STATE OF TO LO

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY

The tolomatia is a tonsoir of the reuro meuda the must naunty a persod dra stirs, 1 ear 8han 1

MA: 29

. D. I. Nuader

1Y

15

18035:3

20-39

7-2-39

1. 26. 1

8:1062

1-19-43

1. 2.13

217-10-863

5-27-74

121-10-664

2-181-167

2-714-47

3-6-677

}

Еэтовії, А. У-

SAt A, N. 7.

shreroyatt, is.

1108-0-6, 7918-5-0

DALIAR, TAXAS

saraitt, ?A.

ARtla R, 37x90

Erio PR

FOISTE

WANE

Jhaas Robert dona

janso 9. I18A

reunin de

17: 1000 90:2

He R.

Fibordo.980 4. 36)

19..

H2710-14-3

Jach Faid

7258-14-43

James Asbert Tutd

HO17660

Tano Rabart Fodt

FON19754

Jattas Robert Tad A

9156-15-64

Jazzo Riber, IINA

P1862-24-3

JAKEr, Robe: 2010

307:539,

Janen Fabert B9ad

0SM45844

Lanes Pibe: 2191

BP: 1425

P. 2od1

4477-80-43

Saran P. in

0836-4-4

Pr: s9 619 De

1 39011-83

üx2983

:14.

I tro

р: 11 440 891.,

1299. 100r

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
1008

H:90:8 CAM

THE STATE OF TPXAS

DEPARTMENT OF PUAi SC SAPETY

AURETIN

F. D. J. Numbes

880.043

12-58.48

7630-1-2

112-80

Islise, Terra

Reenta

FD0450-4-2

NAM

annes fibame cels

D2T8475)

1-217-97

1-244-53

5-8-41

"to 1-34

5-5-97

16-29-32

11-779

4902-53

1-T055

1.044

Da12019, {0738

Daliso, Tanas

Dallas, texas

Dallas, T9100

dallas, Fezne

2069-30-91

1y8pi

"'A Air le Sa4?

R09:T66:

#laes Robert 7sde

area Robert Pard

atos Reter tod

Las Ankasa, Taxan

tolian, Perno

Dalini, 'Feynd

Da! 165, IE113

#017t344 1150 29788

Pa N222ss

snr15669

8857-74-2

Bases. Pobes Parit

1sero Pitert Foid

Women Hiber, I714

Jases Pobert, 7711

3074-3-2. 7-9?

V:2.000,98:1499-199

I4т8 N97l 9194-41-19

00 MASTI R45-94'

3Nla. Har94. 149 101

2279-107

firm

Erana Espa"*: 148 69,". 95.

Par A Cari,, 19 1I

e arpold?

12148.

15-9544-8-5-433

1148-1000

1-84-1099-90-8

1.0818

i6.75

-50

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
---

##
КОМЕЯ КАВИЕМ. і

THE SIATE OF TREAS.

DEPARIMENT OF PUBLIC SAFET!

AUSTAR

To 11eits.

. іі

???

it: 1.

slid

1* 13

F. A. 1. Number : Pe 0:

TO SINTO CRENA: : 1008:63: 1,A

# 891.1

3-4-94

Busins: 118, -2x.

19-25-33

1. 899

-14-632

ANDITIONAL DALLAS PH SARCEMATION:

3-2u47

county vag, de sourt dai?

546-56

Donnied 12..90

39-56

6029m50

Yes DInalerad 220-58

3891-42-04811т4, 5459. ISP aspeded 5-17-43

NW 66000 Docld:1315-32-26
1.21

15992.160

- *

---

##
RACE

.,

DATE AND MACE OF BIRTH. 31-101

PRESENT ADDRESS

224

SCARES ANO MATRE MICHI

DATE OF ARREST. 54-1982

ARNESTED AY

C1 4851

NW 66000

Docld:1315-32-26
0019e 0r8

---

