# DOCID-5490-32-34

##
Date: 3004-1-1::

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM.

IDENTIFICATION FORM

——————————————————

AGENCY. INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10059-10115

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : PLANS AND REVIEW GROUP, CCS

TO : SADOO

TITLE

: HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA)

REQUEST.

DATE

: 1978-01-20

' PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS

: JFK ASSASSINATION

ASCA REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 2004-0-5

COMMENTS

: JFK8: F9 : 1208-20-03-1127-10-2

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Mesassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED : 104-10059-10115

NW 65924 Docld:5490-32-34
---

##
-SECRET

20 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: SADO0

FROM:

M. L. Latta

Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HCSA) Request

REFERENCES:

A. Memo for SADO0 fr OLC (OLC 77-56854),

atd 28 Dec 77, Same Subj

B. Letter for OLC fr Chief CounselDirector

of HCSA, dtd 22 Dec 77

1. This memorandum is in response to the request

in paragraph 4 of Reference A.

information on five of the 11 individuals identified

e of ene

CCS files contain

in Reference B as follows:

a.

Alias Dan Carswell (True Name David I.

Christ) -- Approximately 30 documents, virtually

of which concem the establishment, maintenance

and

use of cover for Subject during his Agency

career as

a Staff Employee from 1956-70.

b. Louis Posada -- CCS maintains a covert tax

file on Subject containing 58 documents covering

his employment as an Independent Contractor from

1968-75.

Information in this file may be released

only in accordance with the provisions of Section

6103 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the opinion

of CCS, the time frame of these documents would make

them irrelevant to the investigation being conducted

by the HCSA Staff.

Cesario Diosdado -- Approximately 25 documents

on Subject, a Bureau of Customs official

CIA from 1961-68 on a reimbursable basis. Virtually

all of the documents concem arrangements made between

CIA and Customs for the use of Subject.

The Commissioner

of Customs should be contacted prior to release of

information in this file.

d.. David Attlee

Phillips -- 125-150 documents,

virtually all of which concem the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his

Agency career as a Staff Employee from 1953-75.

WARNING NOLIC

SENSITIVE INTELLIGGNCE SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CI BY 4925-0-0 03966

NW 65924 Docld:5490-32-34
---

##
SECRET

Lucien Conein -- 100-125 documents,

virtually all of which concem the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his

career with the Agency as a military detailee and

Career Agent from 1954-68.

2. CCS files on the individuals listed in paragraphs

la, c, d and

e above contain forms, memoranda and personal

data concerning administration of cover exclusively.

the opinion of CCS, identification of specific documents

that could be of interest to the HCSA cannot be made

until such time as the HSCA Staff narrows the focus of its

inquiry.

3. There is no information in CCS files on the other

items listed in Reference B.

M. I. Latta

- 2-

SECRET

NW 65924 Docld:5490-32-34
---

