# DOCID-6135-32-34

##
Date:

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

0104-1-2

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10061-10325

RECORD SERIES : JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

.: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

: WITHHELD

TO : SADO0

TITLE : HSCA REQUEST

DATE

: 1978-01-20

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: JFK ASSASSINATION

HSCA REQUEST

CLASSMENTATION PAPER

RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B'

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 2104-0-5

COMMENTS: JFK9 : F64 : 1208-20-03-1173-10-2

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10-21-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10061-10325

NW 65924 Docld:6135-32-34
---

##
20 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: SADOO

FROM:

M. L. Latta

Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HCSA) Reguest

REFERENCES:

A. Memo for SADOO f I OLC (OLC 77-56854),

dtd 28 Dec 77, Same. Subj

B. Letter for OLC fr Chief CounselDirector

of HCSA, dtd 22 Dec 77

1. This memorandum is in response to the request

in paragraph 4 of Reference A. CCS files contain

information on five of the II individuals identified

in Reference B as follows:

a. Alias Dan Carswell (True Name David L.

Christ) -- Approximately 30 documents, virtually

all of which concem the establishment, maintenance

and use of cover for Subject during his Agency

career as a Staff Employee from 1956-70.

b. Louis Posada -- CCS maintains a covert tax

file on Subject containing 58 documents covering

his employment as an Independent Contractor from

1968-75.

Information in this file may be released

only In accordance with the provisions of Section

6103 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the opinion

would nake

of CCS, the time frame of these documents would make.

them irrelevant to the investigation being conducted

by the HCSA Staff.

c.

Cesario Diosdado -- Approximately 25 documents

on Subject, a Bureau of Customs official who assisted

CIA from 1961-68 on a reimbursable basis. Virtually

all of the documents concem arrangements made between

CIA and Customs for the use of Subject. The Commissioner

of Customs should be contacted prior to release of

information in this file.

d. David Attlee Phillips -- 125-150 documents,

virtually all of which concem the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his

Agency career as a Staff Employee from 1953-75.

SOd A03

NW-85924 Doeld:6138-38-34- Rage 2

SECRET

I'D TMONET FT. RY 4055-1-0 # 6333

---

##
SECRET

e.

Lucien Conein -- 100-125 documents;

virtually all of which concem the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his

career with the Agency as a military detailee and

Career Agent from 1954-68.

2. CCS files on the individuals listed in paragraphs

la, c, d and e above contain forms, memoranda and personal

data concerning administration of cover exclusively. In

the opinion of CCS, identification of specific documents

that could be of interest to the HCSA cannot be made

until such time as the HSCA Staff narrows the focus of its

inquiry.

3. There is no information in CCS files on the other

items listed in Reference B.

DaKillar

M. I. Latta

DISTRIBUTION:

Aâse (2)*

HSCA file 10-4h (WGHs)

RC 12034: Christ 410t)

CTC-2956: Posada (Wolate)

RC- 15749: Diosdado(WOatts)

RC-2500: Phillips (Woall)

conein: RC-9321 (WdAtto)

MLLPRG chrono

CCSPRG chrono via reading board

-2-

SETT

NW 65924 Docld:6135-32-34
---

