# DOCID-4826-32-33

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7201-6-1

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90118-10185

RECORD SERIES:

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

HQ

92-2897-92

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 1959-08-19

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS:

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-08-17

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: AT

NW 64578 Docld:4826-32-33
10

---

##
FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

v

FBI

Date:

81959

Transmit the following in

PLAIN TEXT

(Type in plain text or code)

Via

AIRTEL

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO

:

DIRECTOR, FBI (92-2897)

FROM : SAC, DALIAS (88-2749)

SUBJECT:

HARRY RAYMOND POPE,

aka.

- FUGITIVE,

I. 0. # 3285, W. F.

#229

UFAP - BURGLARY, ADW

PEGGY ANN FRYE, aka. - FUGITIVE

UFAP - BURGLARY, ADW - HARBORING

Re Dallas airtel to Bureau, 81859.

By airtel 81759 the Salt Lake City Office advised

that investigation at Las Vegas, Nevada, had been unproductive

in the location of POPE's present wife,

PEGGY GAFFORD. Arrange-

ments have been made by Salt Lake City to be advised upon the

retum of GAFFORD to Las Vegas.

By airtel 81759 the Miami Office advised that there

were no houses of prostitution operating in the West Palm Beach,

Florida, area but that appropriate coverage of suspected call

operations

had been made in an effort to locate the present

whereabouts of FRYE.

On 818 and 81959 Mr. R. A. BURROW, Chief Special

Agent, Southwestem Bell Telephone Company, Dallas (PROTECT

IDENTITY) advised that his office was making a complete check of

all toll calls from the phones of FRYE's mother, RUBY JELSEN, and

FRYE's sister, MARGORIE LOFTICE, to ascertain if a call was made

these phones to the Oklahoma City PCI DORIS HOWARD. Mr.

BURROW stated the check was not complete as it entailed

a great

deal of book work but that he would immediately notify the Dallas

Office upon

obtaining any pertinent information.

3) - Bureau

2 - Oklahoma City

2 - Dallas

RMB SC

(7)

EX-124

REG 43

42-

57897-

Be AUG 28 1959 10

ga AUG 24 1959

Approved:

Sent

M

Per

Special Agent in Charge

NW 64578 Docld:4826-32-33
---

##
A.

DI 88-2749

On 81859 FRYE'S

sister, MARGORIE LOFTICE, Wa S

reinterviewed as a matter of routine and in order to allay

LOFTICE denied any contact with any

Know person with fly E or POp E since last interviewed.

She stated that about two weeks ago she got a

call from an

unidentified man who stated he wanted to talk to f Ry E.

LOFTICE

stated she had forgot to contact the FBI concerning this call

as she

had previously promised.

Sheriff BILL DECKER, Dallas SO, on 81859 advisec

ne had received an anonymous tip that or

81759 POPE andor

FRYE had contacted Fort Worth police character ANGELO THOMAS

CASTEN requesting financial assistance.

CASTEN has been inter-

viewed on numerous occasions by Bureau Agents and has been most

uncooperative.

On 81859 BILL ALEXANDER, Dallas County Assistant

District Attorney, advised he had information from a police

character whom he

described as a reliable source, as follows:

When questioned by ALEXANDER concerning the whereabouts

of POPE, source stated he had not seen POPE but that a friend of

his (the source.) had seen POPE about a week ago at a trailer

lot operated by FLOYD VINCENT's widow (LOIS VINCENT) near

Richland Hills, a suburb of Fort Worth.

The source stated it

was his understanding that POPE had been in contact on numerous

occasions with LOIS VINCENT during the past two or three months

party Ingthile POpe was "partying with Lots" p Eddy f Rys was.

with police character, WILLIAM JENNINGS BRYAN NEWMAN.

The source had no information that POPE and FRYE had split up.

Investigation to verify this information 1s presently being

conducted by Dallas at Fort Worth.

on 81859 Detective H. M. HARI, Dallas PD, Crimina.

Intelligence Section, advised he had information that the bail

bond money, 15,000,

recently put up for the release of LILA JO

BENTLEY, POPE'S

ex-wile, consisted of 10,000 on a property bond

signed by LILLY IRBY, BENTLEY's aunt, and 5,000 put up by Pope.

HARI stated his informant told him that POPE makes contact with

IRBY for relay to BENTLEY through IRBY's brother in Lewisville,

Texas.

LILLY IRBY has been previously interviewed on two

occasions by Bureau agents concerning this bond and contacts

with POPE and has vigorously denied the above allegation.

Oklahoma City at Midwest City through telephone company

immediately ascertain any long distance calls made by PCI DORIS

HOWARD.

If information developed is pertinent, sutel Dallas in

view of arrangements being made for 82159 concerning coverage

of HOWARD at Dallas.

- 2 -

NW 64578 Docld:4826-32-33
---

