# DOCID-9757-32-17

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2120-1-1

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10230-10467

RECORD SERIES: MX

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

105-3702-51

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

MX

HQ

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection ct of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55994 Date: 11-02-2021

DATE: 1963-11-30

PAGES:

2

SUBJECTS :

SEE FBI 105-82555-879

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1997-12-10

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

NW 65994 Docld:9757-32-17
---

##
FD-34,

12-13-561

CIA HAC MA NOTECTION TO

DECi

FBI

F.

Nin IS LU

XLEOT FOR

BRACKET

73063

Transmit the following in The he

K3l6198

RDogeh age in plain text or code!

Via _CABLE

NO.: 196

BY:

---

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

2-22-93

Classified

9803 RADACL

Declassity

of:

OADA

TRE: JFIL

BUFILE ONE ZERO FIVE DASH EIGHT TWO FIVE FIVE FIVE TB

01427-28-83

LEE HARVEY OSWALD, IS DASH R.

Declassity c.

RE TELEPHONE CONVERSATION WITH ASSISTANT DIRECTOR W. C.

SULLIVAN. TODAY. FOLLOWING IS IN CONFIRMATION.

EWINSTON SCOTT, HEAD OF CIA OFFICE HERE, REPORTED THIS MORNING

THAT LUIS ECHEVERRIA,

ACTING MINISTER OF GOBERNACION, HAD ADVISED

THAT. GILBERTO ALVARADO UGARTE

E HAD SIGNED STATEMENT IN WHICH HE

ADMITTED HE HAD NEVER SEEN OSWALD HERE IN CUBAN CONSULATE ON

SEPTEMBER ONE EIGHT OR ON ANY OTHER DATE AND THAT HE HAD NEVER SEEN

4

ANY MONEY. PAID TO OSWALD OR ANYONE ELSE. IN CUBAN CONSULATE. HE

ALSO ADMITTED THAT HIS STATEMENT TO EFFECT HE HAD CALLED OUR EMBASSY

ALL INF DILATION CONTAIRBO

VERBIN IS UNCLASSIT IED LION?

GOOD TRONOM RUBER

SEVERAL TIMES IN UNSUCCESSFUL EFFORTS TO REPORT INFORMATION RE

OSWALD WAS FABRICATION AND THAT SUCH CALLS NEVER MADE.

ALLEGED MOTIVE BEHIND ALVARADO'S STORY WAS THAT HE INTENSELY

DISLIKES CASTRO AND HOPED TO PROVOKE

UNITED STATES INTO THROWING

CASTRO OUT OF CUBA. ENO INFORMATION AVAILABLE TO INDICATE THAT

NICARAGUAN GOVERNMENT WAS BEHIND ALVARADO'S FABRICATED STORY.

SCOTT ADVISED THAT REPRESENTATIVE OF NICARAGUAN INTELLIGENCE

SERVICE, [CAPTAIN WERELOCK, DID NOT ACTUALLY PARTICIPATE IN (

(5)

INTERROGATION OF ALVARADO BUT WAS PRESENT IN ADJOINING ROOM AND

105-3

CONSULTED BY MEXICANS. SCOTT SAID WHEELOCK TOLD HIM HE IS

(S)

105-3702

1-

89-6

(3)

Special Agent in Charge

SEGRET m

SEARCHED....

DEXED.

NW 65994 Docld:9757-32-17
---

