# DOCID-8993-32-39

##
Date: 0199-1-1

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10110-10256

RECORD SERIES :

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM :

COTTER, WILLIAM J, CHIEF, AAS

TO : FILE

TITLE

IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE, RELATIONS

WITH.

DATE :

PAGES

SUBJECTS

1460-0-1

1

IMMIGRATION

ARTIME BUESA,

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 0394-0-3

OPENING CRITERIA

COMMENTS :

JFK40:F7A 1994.03.03

. 14:52:34:0028-6-3:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

35924 Date: 10:26.2021

CLASSIFIED

ATTACHMENT

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65924 Docld:8993-32-39
---

##
STANDARO FORIA NO. 64

SECRET

Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

:

File

DATE: 14 January 1950

FRUM :

SUBJECT:

Chief, Alien iffairs Staff

Imigration and i'aturalization Service, Relations with

(Siami, Florida)

1o it 2:00 p.m. this date, Mr. Richard Haberstrok, Intelligence

had been laid on during 1959, whereby Cubans of interest to this

ngency would be smuggled out of Cuba aboard a boat destined for

Tampa, Florida. Mr. Ahrens indicated to Mr. Haberstroh that

apparently

the Cubars have become suspicious of the vessel, and the boat oiner is

in "hot water" in this regard. According to Mr. Haberstroh, the CIA

in ten suge in on that

representative in Miami was contacted by the boat owner's attorney

with the suggestion that a letter be obtzined from the INS indicating

that they inspected the vessel on its several arrivals at Tampa and

that it carried no passengers.

2. Mr. Haberstroh

stated that his quick reaction is that the

Service cannot comply irith such a request. I informed Mr. Maberstioh

that Mr. shrens should be informed that he should take no action in

regard to this matter and inform the Cl A representative in Miami that

his superiors in Washington would be in contact with him in regara to

this matter.

a첫 2:15 p.n. this date, Mr. Robert Reynolds, Cuban Desi,

Na Division, was telephonically contactea. He stated that he was

aot aware of this most recent development, however, he did mention

that the boat in question nas, in fact, beer impounde첫 in Cuba

since Decender 1957. He went

on to point out that we want to do

everything we ca. to help out the owner of the vessel since the

cause of her trouble was in acceding to our requests io extiltrate

inuivicuals.

4. 1r. Reynolds readily aunitted that the imigration service

should aot have been requested to provide such a leiter, and he

doubted that Bemie Reichardi would have made such a reques체.

Reyiolas stated that he will telephonically contact Reicharde

and get the complete story. He will keep the writer advised.

5. Details pertaining to the initial arrangements with the

Innigratior. Service for the paroling into the United States of

Cubans a첫 Iampa, Florida, are contained in File |2923-2-0.

SECHET

Cotter

e Sahs, WJC:es 15 Jai E0

NW 65924 Docld:8993-32-39
---

