# DOCID-5835-32-32

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9201-4-2

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90038-10024

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-4930-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

DL

TO: HQ

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:N'W

G6OO0 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE :

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

1962-08-24

19

JAMES HENRY DOLAN

DOCUMENT TYPE :

PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

1998-05-27

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

RPT

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:5835-32-32
17

---

##
DL 92-292

Will obtain toll calls charged to DOLAN's phone

for the period 61 - 9162.

5.

Will identify the subscriber to telephone

FR 4-5071 and, if feasible, will interview this person con-

cerning his connection with DOLAN and GEORGE EVERETT THOMAS,

JR.

ADMINISTRATIVE DATA

The extensive period of this report has been noted

by the Dallas Office; however, this matter was kept current

through referenced Dallas communications, and the Bureau was

kept advised of pertinent developments, and the matter received

continuous investigative attention during this period.

R. A. BURROW,

Chief Special Agent, Southwestem Bell

Telephone Company, Dallas, was contacted 67; 71862, by

SA ROBERT M. BARRETT.

Mrs. JEAN WALTER, Business Office, Southwestem Bell

Telephone Company, Pine Bluff, Arkansas, was contacted 72562,

by SA GEORGE A. BARRON, JR.

INFORMANT COVERAGE

Presently utilized by the Dallas Office are the

following who are believed to be in a position to furnish

information regarding subject's activities and associates:

DL-91-C

PCI HUGH. C. FOWLER

DL-129-C

Confidential Source JESS M. ROSS, JR., Oak

Cliff Bank and Trust Company,

Dallas

PCI WILLIAM SOLTES

Mr S. A. M. CONWAY, 100 North Edgefield,

supervisor, Tabulating Department,

Dallas Police Department, neighbor.

Mr S. JOSEPH J. HANLEY, wife of SA JOSEPH J.

HANLEY, who is acquainted with Mrs. DOLAN

through fact the HANLEY children

attend

St. Cecilia's School where DOLAN's children

attend.

D

Cover Page

NW 66000 Docld:5835-32-32
---

##
DL 92-292

F. W. WALDRON, Credit Manager, Sears Roebuck,

Jefferson Avenue,

BOB WRIGHT,

Dallas.

Time-Pay Department, First National

Bank, Dallas.

PCI RED BANKSTON

SPENCER BLODGETT, Time-Pay Department, First

National Bank, Dallas.

DL- 34-C

DL-95-C

DL- 122-C

Confidential Source R. A. BURROW, Chief Special

Agent, Southwestem

Bell Telephone Company,

Dallas.

PCI GEORGE FUQUA.

IDENTITY OF INFORMANTS

New Orleans T-2 is NO 1190-C.

Dallas T-15 is

DL-95-C.

Dallas T-16 is R. A.

BURROW,

Chief Special Agent,

Southwestem Bell Telephone Company,

who desires his identity

be kept confidential.

Dallas T-18 is PCI GEORGE

FUQUA.

E*

Cover Page

NW 66000 Docld:5835-32-32
---

