# DOCID-2025-32-27

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

5201-3-2

AGENCY:

HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10143-10221

RECORD SERIES :

CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 29-04-02

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC: 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

BEDOO Date: 11-04-2021

DATE: 0000-00-00

PAGES:

5'

SUBJECTS :

CIA, FILES

THORNLEY, KERRY

SHAW, CLAY

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 2003-01-01

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS:

Box 19

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:2025-32-27
---

##
CLAY SHAW

201-3493-8-1

CI

Bor Z9, Falder 4

0925-11-11

-CTIONTO

CIA HAS NO O

DOR

DECLASSITIO

WENT

FBI Confidential - NO #100-13988 22651

Indicates Shaw, manager of Int 1 Trade Mart; New Orleans,

advised that during 1949 and 1950 Harry Kahn employed

as mgr of Czechoslovakian In-ustrial Exhibit at Intl Trade

Mart, New Orleans.

Resided at 1309 Bourbon St. Exhibit

closed during 550:

Can testify re Kahn's interest in Daily

Worker.

Review of

201 file :11475

Indicates Shaw categorized as"all others"

--. Memo for record 31069

As of this date all press and other mdeia coverage of events concernin

arrest and trail of subject have been removed from this 201.

Files 3 thru 16 retired to records center; Vol 17-23 in CIICG

vault for storage

MEMOs re:

Implication in Kennedy Assassination:

FBI reports re: Leslie Norman Bradley, licensed commercial

pilot and self-declared adventurer who flew from Wichita, KS.

to New Orleans on 2363-1-1. Former prisoner at Isle of Pines

until April 22,1962. Bradley possibly Castro sympathizer.

Bradley had worked at New Orleans Lake front Airport for

several years in 1950's. At time of assassiantion, Bradley at work

at Flournoy Flying School. Believed assassination done by Cubans,

so decided to go to Miami to confirm convictions: Went to New

Oreans first.

It had been alleged that Bradley told airport

personnel that Clay Shaw had been helping him thru donations.

Bradley denied this. Bradley was questioned by the Garrison

investigators.

--: 21069 - TWX #0002 to contactsWashington, 1367-1-0

"We have never remunerated him."

Contacts with Shaw resulted in eight reports.. Contact was Huner Leake

Relationship was discontinued as shotgun approach to collection effort:

waved and it became obvious that Shaw was becoming more and more

interested in his private ventures and less and less in the activitie:

of the Intl Trade Mart. Resigned as Mgr of Intl Trade Mart 10165.

-- OGG 57-1787 91867 Internal memo

Indicates considered contacting Shaw's lawyers who were interested

in talking with Agency personnel who might be able to clear the

NW 66000 Docld:2025-32-27
---

##
SHAW, page 2

SECRET

0326-11-11

--..Memo for FBI from CIA 61967 RE: Jack N. Rogers

Rogers volunteered information: He is a Baton

Rouge attorney for the joint legislative Committee on

Un-American activities for the state of Louisiana. His

funciton as counsel has cuase Him to link LHO and the FPCC

with the Southem Conference Educational fund thru one Carl

Braden.

It is Mr. Rogeer's theory that Oswald was an organizer

for the FPCC and a Moscow-trained agent.:

-- Doc X ref: 61067 DBB 82786

Martens considered very important link. Martens believed have

Tived with Ferrie and Shaw. Shown Shaws address as his own

while attending Iniv. of Southwestem OL in Lafyette.

--

Memo Internal 41867 NO-155-67 DCE 18261

RE; visit of Gen Cabell to Foreign Policy asscoaition

meeting in New Orleans at which Shaw introduced the General,

41761

-- Memo re Casual contact with Shaw

To clarify any discrepancies, agency had Hunter Leake

explain his contacts with Shaw:

Said Shaw was official source contacted on 30 occaisions

between 1949 and 1956. Did see Shaw socially on chance occasions

in the downtown New Orelans area during which tme thre was little

conversation other than "how are you, "etc. Did not see Shaw at all

after 1965, presumably because Shaw had retired from Trade Mart

and may not have been frequenting. downtown restaurants.

-- Memo for record 4367

RE: Oswald invovlement with DRE

CIA personnel who may have some knowledge of DRE: Paul Oberst,

of CUban OPerations Group; Howard Brubaker, of Cuban Operations

Group;

Carl Trettin, Depty Chief of Cuban Operations group

who knew Bringuier and was stationed in New Orleans at time of

above incidents; Margaret Forsythe, alsooof Cuban desk, thoroughly

familiar with DRE operation. DRE was not funded by CIA but

did have contact with some of its members.

Oswald not member of DRE; rejected by it.

- Application for passport 21958

To travel to Carribean area - Via Puerto Rico, possibly Colombia.

-- Application for passport 11551- 33154.

To visit Wsetem Euorpe Belgium, Netherlands, France, Areas

-- Application for passport 92165

SECRET

To visit W. Inidies, Mexico

NW 66000 Docld:2025-32-27
---

##
SHAW, page 3

SESPET

Application for passport 11551

To travel to Colombia

0927-11-11

CIA HAS NO OSAECTIONTO

DECLASSIFICATON ANDIOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

-- Application for passport 6149

To travel to Peru, Chile, Argentine, Uruguay, Brazil, Mexico

-- Memo 32467 AX 3474

Trace results on persons connected with Centro Mondiale Commerciale

News article accounts trying to establish links between Itnl

Trade Mart with World Trade Center (Centro Mondiale Commerciale)

Persons involved with World Trade Center: Carlos D'Amelio;

Ferenc Nagy; Mandel-Mantello, Heinrich; George Mandel;

Nikolaus Fischer.

TN 1959 Nagy asked if Permindex

of Bael, Switzerland, could

be used as cover for CIA.

File doesn't indicate whether it was'

used; Permindex operating in Rome. in 1960.

Memo - Exhibit B Ca. 1959 Indicates Nagy is a fully cleared contact of

the office.

Report - 00-A3706-03-15

Nagy former prime minister of Hungary. Excellent but unscrupulous

businessman by reputation. Mantello drew Nagy into Permindex.

Newsarticles were linking Shaw with the Trades Center and Permindex

in Rome

and cliamed that the organiztion was fiercely anti-

Communist; closely connected with elements of the extreme right.

-- Memo for the record frm Calvin Thomas 3867

Indicates Thomas had been with DRE, then left for assignment

in Yugoslavia. Ross Crozier took over as case officer.

Believed DRE could have had animus towards Kennedy. Luis Fernande:

Rocha spoke bitterly of Kennedy in 1961.

- FBI report 3267

RE: Interview with Carl JOhn Stanley of Louisville, KY.

Stanley familiar with John Martin AKA Jack Martin and David

Ferrie thru church.

On recommedation of John MArtin Stanley

consecrated David Ferrie as bishop. Ca. 1966 Martin told Stanley

herand Ferrie knew Oswald. and Ferrie involved in the assassination

Claimed Ferrie, Jerry De Pugh, and George Augusitne Hyde all

associates of Martin, connected with Cuban organization.

Martin claims past association with CIA.

LOOSE DOCUMENTS:

Nothing of interest

FERRET

NW 66000 Docld:2025-32-27
---

##
CLAY SHAW

page 4

DCD FILE 2274-0-1

SERPET

0928-11-11

Memo N0-98-76 6376 Internal from J. Walton Moore

Indicates concem for response re: Shaw's connection with.

CIA.

Can reconstruct contact by Leake, but "since we

cannot determine the nature of DCD's relationship with

Shaw from our files, we ouwld ppreciate your summarizing

it for us."

Synopsis:

File contains reports made by Clay Shaw pursuant to contacts by

CIA between 1949-1956; memoranda which followed the course of the

Shaw trial and investigation because of alleged CIA involvement.

CIA tried to determine relationship between Shaw and Permindex or

World Trade Center.

There appears to be none.

NW 66000 Docld:2025-32-27
---

##
KERRY WENDELL THORNLEY

LOOSE DOCUMENTS

75-5730

stepes

0929-11-11

FOIA request of Thornley 82775

Response indicates. CIA had only one document with refernce to Thornley

However, this document has not been

included with the file.

-0-

NW 66000 Docld:2025-32-27
---

