# DOCID-3588-32-37

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 0308-10-41-10087

RECORD

SERIES * JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : LA DIV WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : LADJFK TASK FORCE

TO : THE RECORD

TITLE : MEMO: AMYUM

DATE : 1963-01-01

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS : CASTRO

G-2

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC * RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS : JFK-WF02 : F10 : 0322-20-04-2029-10-6

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

Case# NW 65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10308-10087

NW 65990 Docld:3588-32-37
---

##
SECRET

Job #

File #

Volumes:

64-13835

19-132-32

2 reviewed

Dates included: Jan 63 - Sep 6

MEMDRANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AMYUM

1. Description:

PM activity. Includes correspondence other than that which

pertains to the MRR (Revolutionary Recovery Movement) political group.

2. Findings:

UFGA 8466, 12 April 1963 19-132-32:

Transmitted intelligence debriefing reports on Operation

61 Subject was involved in an action to kill Fidel CASTRO at the

6 Subtit was involve i

Debriefing of Caridad MACIAS Rodriguez.

On 26: July

Z6th of July ceremony at the Plaza Civic.

The action was to kill

Fidel CASTRO by firing a bazooka shell at the speaker's platform.

this action failed because of a defective firing device in the

bazooka.

The G-2 had had persons involved, working in resistance,

under surveillance for some time.

She was connected with the MRR.

A G-2 interrogator said that the Cuban security forces knew every-

thing that was going on in the resistance movement.

They permitted

these resistance organiztions to organize and exist until it was decided

to toll up the group.

She seemed to be connected with AMBRONC-5

(a CIA on-island asset) who was arrested and executed the latter part

of August 1962.

COMMENT: See MRR memorandum on same subject.

LADJFK Task Force

Attachment: 1

Researcher: Barbara B.

NW 65990 Docld:3588-32-37
---

