# DOCID-8641-32-41

##
104-10186-10105

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55997 Date: 10-29-2021

INFORMATION REPORTA

AINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

al A m ADr Ar TAl. (rat ALDa infor Malla af Art IDA lhe Malton A parpar al 19o Uall Ad slalra Milhia I Do srenine de lha Daptanto Lava Il I

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO.

SUBJECT

CS-6085-31-10-64

19 Nuvember 1964-

Polley Gutdaneo Directives for

DATE DISTR

Cuban Intolligonce Representativos

1n El Salvador.

NO. PAGES

8

REFERENCES

CS-0115-31-10-64

CS-0315-31-10-64

DATE OF

1963

INFO.

PLACE

DATE ACQ. Juro 1:961

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INPORMATION SOURCE GRADINOS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAI OR CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCEI

A formor Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban .

Intelligenco

Service

until April 1964.

Headguartors Comment.

which Scurce

prepar: 1 by the General Directorate of inteligence (radeccion

Geroral de Inteligencia -- DGI), MA Department.

The MA Depart-

ment no longor exists as

such, having

been divided into two

Illeyal Department (Ilºgal)

and National Libera-

ticn Department (Liberacion Nacional -- LN).

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION

COUNTRY: EE SALVADOR

INPERATIVE:

1. Collective action.

2. Nationai Liberation Novement.

3. Armed Forces of El Salvador.

1. The Salvadoran Cormunist Party.

5.

Repressive organizations ard CIA.

6.

Domestic politicai life.

7. Training campo and counter-avolutionary operating bases.

5

8.

9.

Counterrovoiu!lonary orgarizations.

Movement of soillarity with Cuba.

3

2

S.-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

AIR

NSi

bonegreding cad

STATE

DIA

ARMY

REPCINCLANT

CINCSO #

Noro: field distributon

indicard by "f".)

I NAVY

INS

1 Xi A

I OCR

TFBI

2

INFORMAFION REPORT

INFORMATION-REPORT

11N- T959

NP (ANMUG-1)

CS-6085-31-10-64

Errached Pare

CILS

A25:e ONia. STe

TOTAL IE 3,01 21, RIDIAN 1, HH'SA 615!

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41' Page' 1 '

erin.

IRAO RWT

---

##
104-10186-10105

WHCOPS

NHPOA

WIIPOB

N11

WH2

WH3

WH3V

WH4

WH5

WH6

WHR

NHSAEOB

WHSAMOB

WHSAR

WHSAInt

WHSACI

WHSASONS

CIStafl

CI Liaison

CIRA

RIDAN

AF1

AF2

AR3

AP4

APR

AFCI

EEK

EESA

EEBR

EEYA

EEH

EEP

EEC

EEIIS

FEPMI1

FE JKOJO

FEJKOK

FEVNCVN

FER

FECI

NEAALS

NEAAAP

NEAAE

NEAAI

NF.5P

NE6CI

NE Intel

WE1

WE2

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41
13

5

30

199

1

1

1

1

S-E-C-N-L-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- la -

WE3

WE4

WE5

WEBC

WER

SRCI

SRCIK

SRRR

SROWH

Flold Dissem

WHMEXI

WHMNTY

WHMRID

WHSDOM

1

1

1

WHPOSN

WHKNGS

WHIPRIN

WHGORG

WILPACY

WHIMANA

WIISALV

WHTEGU

WHIGUAT

WHILAPA

WIIBOGO

WHQUIT

WHGAYA

WHLIMA

WHCARA

WHIBUEN

WIICOBA

WILMONT

WHASUN

WILSAGO

WHIRIOD

WIICURI

WHIBRIL

WHI SAOP

WHIBHIA

WI BRIK

WILLGRE

WHRECI

WILSAWAVE

AFALGI

AFORNA

AFRABA

AFCASB

AFACCR

AFCNRY

AFDARE

5

1

C5-6085-31-10-61

FEVIEN

BESBUR

EECYRU

E.F. ATHE

EESLON

EEBERN

EFGNVA

EE'ZURI

EEHAMB

EEKAVA

FEDJAK

FEMEDN

FESURA

FETOKY

FEOKIE

FESEOU

FESAIG

FEKOBE

NECOLO

NENEWD

NEDOMB

NECALC

NEMDRS

NE KUWA

NEKAHI

NEDACC

NELAHO

NERAWL

NEBAGH

NEBEIR

NEDAMA

NEALEP

NEJIDD

NEDAHA

NETAIZ

NECAIR

NEALEX

WEBRUS

WECOPE

WEHELS

WEOTTA

WE ROME

WEMILA

WEHAGU

WEOSLO

WELISB

WEMADR

WEBARC

WESTOC

WELOND

WEPARI

Liaison Dissem

IECanada

1

1

1

S-B-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

99

?

---

##
104-10186-10105

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 2 -

(S-6085-31-10-68

10. Position of the political partles toward the Cuban Revolution.

11. Relations with the United States

of America.

12. The Church.

13. Intornal situation of the armed forces..

IXPORTANT:

data on

15. News broadcasts and press.

NECESSARY:

16. Structure of the government and operation of its agencies.

17. State of the national economy.

LINES AND OBJECTIVES OF INFORMATION

COUNTRY:

EL SALVADOR

IXPERATIVE

1. COLLECTIVE ACTION

a.

Political or military agreements of the regional Latin

American organizations against Cuba in which the govem

ment of El Salvador participates.

b.

Meetings of the regional organizations intended to take

measures against the Cuban Revolution.

Date of the same.

Places where they are held.

Themes and points discussed,

agreements reached. Penalties against Cuba.

C.

Meetings of the Council of Central American Defense (CDCA)

Reasons for holding the same.

Date and place where they

were held.

Subjects discussed.

Proposals. Agreements

adopted against Cuba.

Nature of the same.

d.

Military mobilization and concentration of Latin American

troops on the territory of El Salvador; reasons mentioned

Units and effectives of armies participating

in these movements.

e. Meetings of a military type held on Salvadoran territory,

or meetings attended ly this country.

Armies which par-

ticipate

discusse and see teen measures

carry them out agreements

Subjects

Measures taken to

s.

Penetrate the organizations

and agencies of a regional

type which are based in El Salvador, especially

the CDCA

and the ODECA.

g. Measures taken on travel

to

or from Cuba.

h. Possibilities of a break with Cuba by countries which now

relations.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41
---

##
104-10186-10105

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES

-3 -

CS-6085-31-10-64

2. MOVEMENT OF NATIONAL LIBERATION

Development of plans for the insurrectional struggle.

b.

Role of the leftist forces.

The F.G.A.R.:

its nombers,

directors, organization, media for conbat. Degree of

participation by the mass organizations:

workers, peasahts,

students, and other strata (women, professionals, intellect-

uals,.

C.

Overt organizations:

number and function,

leadership,

organization,.

degree of participation in the national

liberation movement.

d. Repressive activities against the forces of the left.

e. Possibility of contacts with the Guatemilan guerrilias and m

others of Central America.

f. Propaganda media of the leftist forces.

8. Permanent contact with the Communist Party and the F.U.A.R.

Constant information

on their position toward Cuba, and the

political and economic changes which have occurred here.

3. ARMED FORCES OF EL SALVADOR

a.

Organization of the armed forces. Units and strength.

Principal chiefs of the same.

b.

Appropriations for the armed forces. Appropriations to

each branch.

c.

Secret bilateral agreements with the United States. Yankee

advisers in the varlous branches of the armed forces.

Activities and functions of the same. Type of instruction

or training which they give.

d.

Participation of the armed forces in the activities of the

CDCA.

Units and strength of the sane which participate in

the latter's actions.

Stationing of these forces.

Guerrilla and anti-gurrilla training received in the army.

Inits and strength of the same which participate in the

Manuals used in the

-....

4. THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF EL SALVADOR

a. Position toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

:b. Position on Cuban-Soviet relations.

c. Position on the line followed by Cuba in the national and

international political order.

d.

Fosition in reiation to the disagreezents in the Communist

International movement:

In the case of China and the USSR.

In the

case

of Albania and the L'SSR.

In the Yugoslavia-China-USSR-Albanian question.

In the peace problem.

In relation to peaceful coexistence.

S-E-C-R-E-T'

NO FOREIGN

DISSEM

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41
---

##
104-10186-10105

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CS-6085-31-10-64

e.

Domestic situation in the party:

State of unity.

Disagreements.

Strength.

1. Relations of the Communist Party weth other ferrisk forces:

Role within the f.I.A.R.

State of unity with these forces.

Disagreements.

E. Methods of strussle adopted officially by the party!

h. Participation of the party in Insurrectional preparation.

1. Monk statiod tse Caressions to hod active

J. Needs of the Connunist Party in El Salvador.

of the guerrilla movement.

1. Publicity media of the Communist Party of El Salvador.

Relations of the Communist Party o I Salvador with the

bourgeois parties.

n.

Maintenance of close contacts with the Connunist Party of

El Salvador.

5.

REPRESSIVE BODIES AND CIA

a. Repressive bodies which operate in the country.

Chiefs of

the

same.

Functions

them.

of each.

Activitles carried out by

Objectives of the repressive bodies.

b.

Coordination existing between the ational repressive

organizations and others of the area. Plans and objectives

of the same.

c.

d.

Neaspres dictated to executo the agreentits. Date of

Foreign advisers in the repressive bodies (Yankees), thel

names, charges, and functions.

Cases in which they have

asted.

I. Plans and objectives of the CIA in the country and the area.

The nationd GRet nonwork and persons who operate for it.

h. Counterrevolutionary persons who work with the repressive

sodies and the Cl A in the country.

Janes, charges,

and

functions of the sane.

Cases in which they have acted.

S-S-C-R-F-T

1O FOREIGN DISSEN

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41
---

##
104-10186-10105

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-5 -

CS-6085-31-10-64

1. Conticts with the Interpol, Coordination existing with the

sane.

Restrictive measures on travel to Cuba.

Agents..

6. DOMESTIC POLITICAL LIFE

8.

The bourgeois political parties: composition, strength,

propaganda.

media

and internal differences.

leaders, data on the sage, programs,

b.

Relations of the bourgeois political parties: relations

with the national ollgarchy,

with the U.S.

nonopolies and

the U,S, Embassy, with the churches, and the Honduran Armod

Forces.

c.

Antl-Communist campaigns: arguments, attacks on Cuba,

leaders.

d. The fascist gangs; their organization, membership, leaders.

3. Fraternal organizationg of a secret type:

their relations

with the government, with the Church, the U.S. monopolles,

and the U.S. Embassy.

f.

election preparations: possible candidates, coalition

programs, government campaign, activities of the Church,

activities of the United States Embassy and of the armed

forces.

7. TRAINING CAMPS AND OPERATING BASES FOR COUNTERRETOLUTIONARIES

Information on the

location of training camps which operate

in Salvadoran territory.

Number of counterrevolutionaries.

Type of training and duration of the same.

Branches of

instruction.

Transportation media.

Plans for attack, dates

and targets, penetration of the existing camps.

b.

Pinpointing of operating bases for counterrevolutionaries

who will operate in Salvadoran territory.

Their characteristics.

Available transportation

Armament.

Persons at the head of these organiza-

who participate in them.

Plans and objectives of

their attacks. Dates of the same. Penetration.

8. COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS

Delegations of counterrevolutionary organizations which

operate in El Salvador.

Leaders of the same.

Activities

they develop.

Contacts with persons in the Government or

political parties.

Documents of the same organizations.

b.

Campaigns conducted by these persons in El Salvador.

National organizations from which they obtain support for

them. Methods used.

c. Communications of the counterrevolutionary organizations

with their centers in the United States. (Viami) and with

Cuba. Through which persons they are established.

used.

Nethods

d.

Contacts by the counterrevolutionaries with the Yankee

Embassy.

Activitles which they carry on in coordination

the same.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSES

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41
---

##
104-10186-10105

S-E-C-R-I-I

NO FOREIGY

PISSES

-6 -

CS-6095-31-10-64

decupations in which they are legally. Business and other

activities in' which they are engaged.

Illegal activities

developed.

9.

NOVEMENT OF SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA

3.

leam the structure of the merenent of solidarity with Cuba.

b.

Leam the

possibilitles of active demonstrations or sOl1

arity with Cuba which the progressive organizations have

10. POSITION OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TONARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION

a. Toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

b.

Regarding the relations in matters which affect Cuba and

world peace.

Regarding accusations that Cuba is a base of Communisi

sgression against the American continent.

11. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

a. The Alliance for Progress.

b. Relations with loan organizations in the United States.

c.

officials; their activities.

d. The "Peace Corps". Its activities.

e. Participation of the Armed Forces of El Salvador in the

academies

of the "special forces" of the United States of

America.

S.

organization.

nel to teach

natives, and so forth in public health,

school construction,

to win their sympathy): their activities, their

political and military influence.

initod States militars ald: role of the i S. Military

Mission.

12.

n.

Political influence of the monopolies: means of ideological

penetration.

1. Cultural agreements: scholarship plans.

Plans to

etc.

develop tourism.

Construition of motels, airports,

leal purposes of these activities.

THE CHURCH

b.

Ecclesiastical hierarchy: personai data, organization.

Influence

on the education of the country.

S-F-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41
---

##
104-10186-10105

S-E.-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

-7 .

CS-6085-31-10-68

2552E

Relations of the Church with Unsted States plans for the

country (with tho Alllance for Progress,

the Peace Corps).

"Ith the Salvadoran Armed Forces, with the remaining

d. Position or relations between the native and foreign

clergy.

e.

Participation of the Catholic Church in the domestic policy

of the

country.

Campaigns of the Catholic Church.

1. Arguments of the Catholle Church against Cuba.

13.

INTERVAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES

a.

Internal situation in the army.

Divisions into groups.

Control exercised by them inside the army. Sociál compost-

tion of the armed forces.

Corruption in the army.

for officers, non-commissioned

c.

Activities of lascist groups in the army.

current.

Anti-Comaunist

nature.

Relations with civilian organientions of a fascist

IMPORTANT

I4. OPERATIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE. DATA

ON ITS MEMBERS, AND ON THE ACCREDITED DIPLOMATIC CORPS IN THE

COUNTRY

a. The U.N.

b.

The Organization Of American States and the Inter-American

Defense Board.

c.

Officials in and of the Latin American countries.

d.

Data and operation of the foreign service.

.. Opprations corps data une geticals of the accredited

15. THE PRESS AND RADIO BROADCASTS

Data on newspaper men and announcers. Data on the organ

dissemination (newspapers and radio stations) existin

outside the country for our work.

b. The clandestine press.

c.

The Official Bulletin or

equivalent publication in the

country.

S- E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 65987 Docld:8641-32-41
---

##
104-10186-10105

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEX

-8 -

CS-6085-31-10-64

NECESSARY

16. STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNMENT AND OPERATION OF ITS AGÉNCIES

a. Relations betreon the prosidency and the ministrles.

b. Data on the outstanding officials of the government.

Có..

The congress; outstanding personalitlos.

relations of

he government with the U.S. Embasgy and the u.s.

monopolies.

posts, Important laws,

17.

SEARCH FOR COLLABORATORS WHO WILL INFORM ON THE STATE OF THE

NATIONAL ECONOMY

--

other U.S. monopolies.

scononic plans:

farm and livestock, and industrial.

New U.S. investments.

Level of unemployment and consequences connected with the

overpopulation of the country.

coward one A nave car ta essestments, nature, positior

e.

Now try ed-Stater capital and investments existing in the

I. The relations of El Salvador in view of Central American

economic integration.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

NW 65987 'Docld:8641-32-41 Page 9*~.

4.1.9

b..rgo..00. .1101.41:4091-10-7-0-99

---

