# DOCID-3318-32-37

##
Date: 1998-0-2

Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

CIA

104-10300-10298

JFK

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR

CIA

FROM

: STEVENS, M. D.

TO : CHIEF, SRS

TITLE

DATE

: ORIGINAL PAGE FOUR OF MEMO CONCERNING RICHARD CAIN.

: 0967-1-0

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : COHEN

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1B

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 0998-0-2

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS : OSW-SF: F6 1998.02.09.09:00:03:3092-7-3: 0300-10-4110297 AND

0132-10-4110307 (DUPS) BOTH HAVE PREV SANITIZED PAGE

(PARA 14 DELETED ENTIRELY) . THIS IS AN UNREDACTED COPY

OF P.4, NOW REDACTED FOR CURRENT RELEASE.

feleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 65990 Docld:3318-32-37
---

##
SECREI

i2. During the time COHEN was a CIA employee (1949-1963), he

was of concem to the Security Offico, due priacipally to the activities

and proclivities of his wife, Rita C. Heller COHEN, #MS-3185, the for

rer wife of Irving ROTH, #MS-200L R. COHEN was the subject of an

Employment Review Board case in 1956; and in 1956 was disqualilied

as a member of the Junior Careez Development Program. It was then

decided to put him on a job in FBIS in which he would not be exposed to

highly senaitive material. At the time of his resignation, he was an

I. O. Contact, GS-14, In the Chicago Office of the DDIOO Contact

Division.

13. In January 1965, the DCS requested approval to contact

COHEN on an ad hoc basis to participate in the briefing and debriefing

of his employer, Senator PERCY, who planned an extensive tour of the

Far East. In June 1967, Mr. George CARY, Legislative Counsel,

requested a check on COHEN stating that there may be occasion to brief

him from time to time. According to Mr. CARY, COHEN would be

briefed generally on the build up in Cuba but would not be exposed to

operational information or exotic matorial.

11. COHEN is currently of interoat to this Office in connection

with an approach which was made to him by the Second Secretary of

the Romanian Embassy in Vashiagton, Aa FBI report of 16 August 1967

on Victor DOROBANTU, the Second Secretary, noted the approaca buc

failed to indicate under what circumstances GOHEN furnished the

information regarding his contacts with DOROBANTU.

15. There is attached a copy of the above referred to September

articies in Llfe magazine, in one of which CAIN is described as the erst-

while chauffeur and courier of Sam GIANCANA. The second of these

articles makes reference to alleged friendly contacts of Jim GARRISON,

of the OSWALD Gase, with henchmen of the Cosa Nestra in the Louisiana

area.

Attachraents: articles

MD5ces

NW 65990 Docld:3318-32-37
---

