# DOCID-4656-32-38

##
104-10228-10085

PAICH

5804.1966-10-9;

S8 CNS

C1108 08 4109-26-2, DO:062

CU10S O8 Et08100, JAVE

ітіт. івʼя

JE.IOperntlons

scene dug in casualo

Ra Serences BLAA-5290, par Agraph? Of enclosed COntact Ro Ma N AJH-E8

Aet1an8

Bogot A--Parna 2 a Dd 5

D:521V7--P089 3

Around the first ol October the IRD VAN In TORet OS I Ero the CRe,

WIth DE, JOBO SIRO CArd On A as Chile S ADd TONy VAROl A, LUTEE ERDATAl

coordinator of tho YRD, as deauty chias.

In tho To Orgsizer Los resulting

Tron tia merper, 1t 10 noted tras a recent lloting dl personal that tbe

folloving nor comprior the Ci C delegation to Coloniale,

300.00 a sonth

HAXISO BORCIDO

Roberto HUTZ

RObe Rt O HALPON

300.00

150.00

250.00"

:

2... No a BBUNO BAd Y DRAL 18 the ISAL (Inu) sentiones 1s rosoron00

as one of the tho gubans who have proposed the notting do ol a puerrill,

training camp SOT

abans in Colaable and slain to hare sixs to Infiltrat

back into Cuba.

and RUIZ: are the f Or Es T YRD delegates.

He cannot Identisy the otber Cuban, APORN, (TED): BOROLDO

de you mos таз битіо состав.

pondence, ti Toil, the detactor iron chile, has a somers sausalacoble

background: The only Hesdquartare trace on Eduardo IBAl 13 ECL-L66T

dated à Juno 1958, tbernastat coples os unlos are encloses. Please forsara

1020 EXRODe ON IBAI, a DS APOTTE at your carllest conventescs, ragother

v Ish pertinent comments on the IOORDt act IVIties ans stoadlez lo the

Cuban exilo community el Sulato, Hulz, and Balron.

For liv Es In viou of the derogatary Information li ta enclosed

EKH-1667, which 1upllos DAL'S alf1llatlon With Venezoolen Carlots 1n

1958, ploase make a thorough ebock on als background taroat thor's und

BOTIBO BOODe DDi

EXCLOBUr OS!

1 (1168-1667)

I (PAr A. 2 08 NTH-68--t0 HAVE ORLY

DATE Tr OES.

Diatr1but10n8

LATE UTSPATCHED

2 NOV 1961

asian.

2 - ЛОЛВ 42 onOfo.

19-124-2573

CLASSIATi AI

SESHEI

EL38-335

мот. кту не то яться

1: -227-253

отка

1-

arrisenore

Thm.

ORIGINATINE

COORDINATIPRIG

LAT

CATE

7391-5-1 1054

-..

RELEAS!?A

DATE

11-1 - 601

(RE FHEVIONSIION МАЛ'АКОТВО

i vas 100?

DISPATCH

NW 65990 Docld:4656-32-38
---

##
104-10228-10085

CONTINUATION OF

DISPATCH

8LSH-3356

2h27 1-01

As you are probably amra, Infiltration al bolles and satarial

Into Cuba bra becaso Incronainely dlfrieuli dos thare l0 evory ladleation

that tiptonian C? latorail Cot TOl La DLTi S Tidi costinue. Any lario-

scala training for guar Tilla operationo, as lauliod so reference, vould

be lspractieal and tratoful vithout subatruslal anoets for safiltration

at the tralneds and af untorial to aupply then.

Do rould be interested

In detallod Intarantion do the "Deano t O In TLi Er St O" CLAl Ded Dy LEAL

And APUNTa, but 1t 10 extrasaly doubtful they tate any Infiltration

a Basta t RA ro Uld juat Isy d Inatr E lo T guerrilla operations under sle

present cirquaatraces. It la sugreated they be advised to begla trainiag

on a sunil sanlo of a son c'abras to infiltrste los the purpose

ai latelligence fatherlag.

In this vay tbey soald be ablo to test

abels 1nfiltration sopabilitios and to gala intelligence needed en

eOd1t1oOa 1na1ãe, prevailing Intornal coutral measures, ete., boloro

baking any seeision os undertakias or traíalas for sabotago and guarrella

Headquarters pannot say thether or sot the CRi la bahlad tbe

s Ta Inlas plane mention Al lo SParenco, but efforto vill be sado to

dereralas the CRO role 1s any.

and legri De abould 11n18 tbersolves do the adoro suzsustiona and sboula

monitor the rosulta to deteruino the possible future utility or the

stard to pars bo.

#ith sagard so assistance, station Bogota

Cuban group in Coloubin.

At the prosent timo 18 appears that GIACAR

would bo vasting 14s thes and manoy as a group vales has jet to provo

Its alaínad capab1l1tlos.

The Station should be partloulnly caratul la lts dlocussions

Of th IA MAt Ter n Ot t O JUPLY MUBART OT ODYOKS Intere St I A OF s Upp Ort d I

LOCAI FRD OT CRC gr OUp S. On arcasiona thise sroupo here engage 1a ...

actirition which bave boen of might be haruful to OXONS rolations vita

the local governante canoerned.

100* 530

USE PRIMOUS RAMION

s'8

ƠRBT

PAGENO

2

NW 65990 Docld:4656-32-38
---

