# DOCID-3530-32-30

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8201-5-2

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-10284-10042

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 92-2972-70

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

VOEGE, ROBERT A.

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

50444 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 1963-09-17

PAGES:

23

SUBJECTS :

SMO, GM, REL, ARREST, US BORDER PATROL, VIOLATING,

BAIL BOND

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-05-19

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:3530-32-30
10

---

##
win'" Er.

12

Gast

1427 ONES ANNE

crafticula

SES NEES SUSPE

WRITE BELOW THIS LINE

PG 92-235

LEADS

PITTSBURGH

AI PITTSBURGH, PA. (ALLEGHENY COUNTY)

1. Will ascertain the details surrounding the

loan allegedly granted to GENOVESE by the Second Federal

Savings and Loan Association at one of that bank's

Pittsburgh branches.

2. Will recontact Patrolman JAMES HOPPER of the

Richland Township Police Department in an effort to determine

when he will initiate a law suit against GENOVESE for failure

to pay a bill owed to HOPPER for construction purposes.

3. Will remain particularly alert for any

transactions conducted by GENOVESE during the years 1960 -

1962 in connection with house or vehicle purchases, home

Improvements, new construction or repairs.

This has been

specifically requested by the Intelligence Unit of the

Internal Revenue Service at Pittsburgh, Pa., which 1s

conducting an intensive investigation concerning expenditures

made by GENOVESE during these years.

4. Will follow and report all of the activities

of MIKE GENOVESE, his brothers and his associates in

accordance with Bureau instructions.

INFORMANT COVERAGE RELATING TO THIS REPORT

PG T-I 1s PG 632-C who was contacted by SA ROBERT A:

VOEGE on 73163 and 91363.

PG T-2 1s GEORGE M. KEEFER, Vice President and

General Manager of the Northem Pittsburgh Telephone Company

at Gibsonia, Pa., who was contacted by SA ROBERT A. VOEGE on

9663, at which time he requested that his identity remain

confidential.

- B'-

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:3530-32-30
---

##
100:486

11 13560

SHELTE

craters sider

WRITE BELOW THIS LINE

Line, 84

hosterpo

PG 92-235

PG T-3

1s PG 657-CTE who was contacted by. SA JAMES B.

FANNING on 62463.

PC T-4 1s PG 657-CTE who was contacted by SA JAMES B.

FANNING on 62263.

PG T-5 1s PG 650-C who was contactea by SA JOHN S.

PORTELLA On 9403:

PG T-6 1s former PCI CAMILLE NAFFAH who was contacted

by SA THOMAS G. FORSYTH, III on 71563 and who has requested

that his identity be protected.

PG T-7 1s Mrs. JULIE PODANI, Clerk, Record Section,

Selective Service System Headquarters, 100 North Cameron Street,

Harrisburg, Pa.

- C*

COVER PAGE

NW 65994 Docld:3530-32-30
---

