# DOCID-1647-32-35

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

: CIA

RECORD

NUMBER: 104-10077-10005

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

' FROM : JMWAVE

TO

: DIRECTOR

TITLE

: JMWAVE CABLE - PLANS OF DOMINICAN MILITARY LEADERS TO

SABOTAGE THE

SAN ISIDRO AIR BASE.

DATE

PAGES

1963-12-14

4

SUBJECTS : SABOTAGE

DOMINICAN

JMWAVE CABLE

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 0995-0-8

COMMENTS : JFK17 : F12: 1995.08.09.17:07:31:0028-1-0

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10:25-2021

[R]

ITEM

IS

RESTRICTED

104-10077-10005

NW 65924 Docld:1647-32-35
---

##
DIRECTOR

MAVE

ISSUED TO

TW

AT 0149 01E

DEG

63W3

DOP, SACORy SOO 6, SA 2, 0005S.

APROP

2AO 4,

01003, P33S)

BOR,

RYAN, SAS 8

ASNE,

TOES

14 DEC 0442Z 63- IN 80505

PRIORITY DIR TAFO PRIORITY SDOM SUAN SITE WAVE 9834

INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM

SUPDATAS

ZRWAHOO

PEDRO VALDIVIA FROM JEAN LOUIS CORSIER, DOMINICAN

RIGHTIST, WHO OBTAINED INFO FROM RAMON (TAPIA) ESPINAL DURING A VISIT

WITH TAPIA IN SDOM BETWEEN 5 - 7 DEC 63. PROTECT VALDIVIA.

RIDE INDEX. FILED IMOZ

REPORT CLASS: CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

SUBJ: : FLANS OF DOMINICAN MILITARY LEADERS TO SABOTAGE THE SAN ISIDRO

AIR BASE DOI Se T DEG 63 PARAS UNITEO STATES, MIAMI (13 DEC 63)

UG 48c0 Arms 2,

SCURCE, FORMER LATIN AMERICAN MILITARY OFFICER WHO AT

ONE VICE RESTOCO MY MATTI ANO INE CEMINICAN REPUSCIC. HE STILL MAINTAINS

EUR LOSE TO WINOSANNOT TEASE COLDERLES

12667

CE

DANC

NW 6592 Dold:1647-32-35
---

##
19.4

1. 0

PAGINA D

IN 89505

SOURCE IS A TRAINTO REPORTER AND HIS ILS ORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE IN

THE CAST

7698 INFORMATION LAS OBTAINED FROM A COLLEAGUE OF RAMON

KLARA COSPINAL N

Ness

Encouns E

NW 65924 Docld: 1647-32-35,
---

##
PORAVINEORMATION REPUR MENON

CONTRAL NOLIGANCE ABINEY

D. BOOB, Par O 18. 0.8. 0z0

- DISECMNAHON CONTROIS

TAINOS

REPORT NO. TOCS

DATE DISTO.

VISCY

PRECECENCE

DEFERENCES

IN 85505

HE C

SEE B

PRAISAL

THIS UNEVALUATED MORGATION

FIELD DEPORT NO.

SOURCE GRADIOS ARE DEFIATIVE, APPRAIBAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

' ACCORDING TO RAMON (TAPIA) ESPINAL, MEMBER OF THE RULING

DOMINICAN TRILAVIRATE, THE OMINICAN GOVERRMENT IS INVESTIGATING A

RECENTLY DISCOVERED PLOT IN THE DOMINICAN MILITARY TO SABOTAGE TWE

SAY ISIDRO AIR CASCUATARCA SANO THAT VICTOR HUGO RAMON PERALTA, THE

DOINICAN PILOT NO RECENTLY DESERTOO THE RANKS OF THE DOMINICAN AIR

ron

CE MITH A PEST CARERATE IMICH ME FLES TO PUERTO RICO, LAS A MEMBER

CE A CROUP OF DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS WHO ARE INVOLVEO IN THE

SACOTABE PLOT.

PAPIA SAID MAT A DOCH CONTITARY GIFICIALS ARE CURRENTLY

UNCER INVESTICAT ICH SY THE COMINICAN AUTHORITICS. - THESE OFFICIALS

CONGOS VAI

comers

INTORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

NW 65924 Docid:1647-32-35
---

##
Nilsov

79,03

OCSELING INDOZEO.TO DESERETTHELR POSIIIONS BY FORMER DOMINICAN

Da ESTDENTOUA (h OSCh) ПЕдАРУноО

PAST N2

NW 65924 Docld:5164-32-3Z-Rage 5

---

