# DOCID-2012-34-43

##
Date

Page

2698-0-1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : INSCOMCSF

RECORD NUMBER : 194-10013-10340

RECORDS SERIES : DOD-AFFILIATED PERSONNEL AND INCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: ZF0003-0-0W - PAGES 1379 - 1380

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : USA

FROM : DERZIS, PETE N

TO : MR. HERMAN

TITLE

:LETTER

DATE

: 2954-0-6

PAGES

: 2

SUBJECTS : DEFECTION OF ARMY PERSONNEL

PENETRATION POSSIBILITIES

PULLEY, INGRID

PULLEY, JAMES W

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS : 1B, 2

CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 2095-0-3

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Hecords Collection Act of

1992 |44 U5C 2107 Notel. Lase#W

S6MO0 Date: 11-04-2021

***

***

***

**

*W*

* I*

*T*

*H*

*D*

*R*

*A*

*W*

*A*

*I*

* *

*C*

*A*

*R*

*D*

* *

***

***

***

NW 66000 Docld:2012-34-43
---

##
Hes. Info, Copy

65th CIC Gr Oup

Confidential

USARE UR

Bs' 1702

CONFIDENTIAL!

(Letter-No.)

REQUEST FOR CIS COVERAGE

1. Requesting Organization:

56 th GIC ISor " VITI

ACO 742

Date 20. June 325

2. To: CO, Station ....

(Att'n

.... APO

742

FIo sermann

3.. Coverage is required of:

—Telephone

-Telegraph-

(postaly

(Circle one or more)

of the following individual(s)

(Firm, office, etc.):

a) Name:

Address:

Huwes of kacan persons are ettachee.

Sce attached,

Telephone No.:

Required Into: the Us end illied defectoro prevently reoiding in the olty of.

PAstly are of an intolligance interest and coverage in desired t

deteraine their present activitios.

Request is submitted to ohtain information concerning Us and allied de-

fectors in PAl IZEN in order to effect -onotration possihilities.

b) (if other persons are linked to the same case, attach extra sheets.)

4. Intercepts should be givendispatched to SC, Region VIII, 66th GIC Gra, AID 742, US AT-Y

Attention... Ar. SOMENSI

5. Coverage is desired effective .... Immadiately

for a period of indefinite... days.

6. All Intercepts on this case should be titled:

II-SDOVIII-9452

105*

At. 106

1379

Tel.

In 42323

ONNDEN

8 2 1000 - 5.51-20065 - 1836

Confidential

Pattu Burns May

100]

Arty

Commanding

Reg VI!!

1. 3943

NW 66000 Docld:2012-34-43
---

##
Received

Operations Started

Extensions

.... Log. No.

Confidential

Dispatched to Hq. ..

Operator's No.

Log. No.

Terminated

... PRRS

CASE CARD

Corfidential

NW 66000 Docld:2012-34-43
---

##
DISPOSITION FORM

SECURITY CLASSi FICATION (I any)

CONFIDENTIAL

FILE NO.

AEUC-SB

SUBJECT

US Personnel in Soviet Custody (U)

TO

COMMENT NO. 1

28732

Co, 66th CIC Group

APO 154, US Forces

ATTI:

ADOC-SBCI

FROM

DATE

CO, Region IV

66th CIC Group

GPdazMM 8217

APO 108, US Forces

1. (U) Reference Dossier #GL-1806-0-1, Subject Ingrid Pulley nee

Katterre.

2. (C) Pulley was incarcerated during September 1957, as a direct

result of information obtained from her during the course of

an interrogation

conducted by this Region. During the course of the interrogation, Pulley was

of the opinion that she would receive a sentence from three to five years

for her activities in attempting to defect US Army personnel to the Fast

Zone.

This office learned through its liaison contacts that the maximum

sentence she would receive would be approximately one year confinement.

Hence, this fact was used as a bargaining point to extract a confession

from Pulley. She appeared to be extremely grateful to CIC because she was

of the opinion that because she told the truth concerning her activities,

CIC had interceded in getting her sentence reduced.

3 (U) Pulley was discharged from prison on 14 October 1958. It is

interesting to note that Pulley voluntarily contacted this Region upon her

release. It is felt that she had two purposes in mind when contacting this

Region:

a.. An expression of gratitude for having had her sentence reduced

to one year.

b. To solicit information as to the whereabouts of her husband,

James W. Pulley, dossier #F2-6744-0-0, and her mother who resides in the vicinity

of Bautzen, East Germany.

4. (C) It is considered important that the whereabouts of Pulley is

known at all times. First, because of her mission; and secondly, because she,

in all probability, will legally or illegally attempt to contact her husband

and mother. When this happens, Region IV stands to benefit from any informa-

tion which she may obtain.

5. (C) Pulley appears to be friendly, cooperative, and fearful of

returning to prison.

She is of the opinion

that should she continue her

mission and come to the attention of CIC in unfavorable circumstances, she

would again be incarcerated.

6. (C) Plans for development of Pulley are to continue periodic contacts

with her to obtain any information concerning above SUBJLCT, and to maintain

CIs coverage

1380

Incl:

AR dtd le Nov 58

re SÜBJ

OUT LOG Nr.

FORM

DD FES96

REPLACES NME FORM SO. I OC

NES. WHICH MAY BE USED.

CONE

ROBERT C LAWRENCE, Maj, MI (Sigo)

ommanding

AGL (1) 5-56-2MM-49787

REGRADING DATA CANNOT BE PREDETERMINED

NW 66000 Docld:2012-34-43
---

