# DOCID-9771-32-41

##
104-10189-10032

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65987 Date: 10-29-2021

SECRET

Tech Actirity

The nillal alfore (abour 1is8! agains the PHRi NEN, TPILIDE

CArg Ol VRO A PBIMPULSE (hos-ialke colophone). II cas

totroduced trito the larget unlag Lif EAT asdero dad una actuared

from the LIFEAT VI baseboure.

Subaoquens to thas (1960-1961), eighs micropponeeraramieror

inatallaslono mera made la the same las gel.

These vero

callad LIERODE Installatiods. Che os suo more placed la tho

senlor official'e allice al variona sumes during thia perlod.

These lastallationa mere monitored from a prock (not the LIFIRE

truck) and an apartmeat (breebouse Able) end lates a second.

cloper spartment (basabosso Baker).

Barehouse Bakar

the LIERODE

The last micropbonefrasemires lastallatton ceased functioalas

durlag lato 1961g aud de thit Mare work arassed on a sou

ins EMilation Called LIERODEMXTRAP Be Ca Use the MK TRAP

tochnique mas usad.

Th O LLERODEMKTRAP I Esiallation wao made veing

LIFEAT agora and was acrudied (rom the LIFEAT-YI gase

dartag Alarch 1962.

At some timo darlag the postad 1762-1963 proso operarlono

Dore pul Into ellec! uglag Bagehouss Baxer (LIE IODE Baga).

Dariag November 1963, she LIERODEMKTRAP indallarson

MAR TONIGIUAIRd ITORS a BOCODE LIFIAT BASCh OUDO (Baseh OUse

Charlio).

la summary, vince 1958 there hare been the following

sochalcal operationa frora the foliodiag bases againar lals

295ะด811

1. PHIMPULSE (hos-mito colephone)

8.

Mikesranoniter installaisone (8 oach)

3. MKIRAP (bos-miko telephone)

LIFEAT-VI

LIFEAT - YI and

4. Photo operailors

Base bosse Bit 1958-1-8)

NOTE: Basaboure A mao atrially comporary and almosi certataly

jo nos in use and probably cos arallabie ai lie time, It la

beltavod that l8 do the apartnest of a seato rolariro of

LIIMENT-22.

SECRET

NW 65987 Docld:9771-32-41
---

