# DOCID-1822-32-41

##
104-10177-10035

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Aet ol

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65987 Date: 10-28-2021

JATE

26006AK

BAS BP

70

Di RECTOR

no Coxico and 31

CLASSIFIED Di ESSAGE

S-E-G-f-ET

1o.

Reproduce

DIR

NFO

1UG 7 23142 59

PRIORITY

1: 11350 213

'CITE

; HAVA

i T

NAVAL ATTACHE MO CAPT MANUEL VILLARACA MURTINEZ, CUBAN MIR ATTACHE, THEIR

DECISION: GREAK: WITH FLOEL: CASTRO BUT WILLING ROIN IN PLACE TO REPORT VITAL INFO

TO COYOKE. NO COXOKE CONMITNENT ASNED BY SUSUS. DOGATH ATTACHE WILL MANOLE

AGENTS ANO STAHIGTNILL PROVOE QUIDANCE AND BE KEPT RELY INFANCO.

2. INFO REPORTED FIRST MEETING INCLUDES:

ANILLARA LIVES WITH NO SLITAL ATTACHES, CYLECTOR CANCIA VIOM

ANA (LI) GIL LINO SUAREZ HERNANDEZ, BOTH OF WHOM ARECONVIES, SUAREZ TOLO

AFANA HE FORGERLY WITH RAUL CASTED IN CORUE YOUTH ADVEMENI

SO Or MYTHE MELTAL TOOK TO CUCA VIR GENERA LAZARO LOCHS

VILLAFA SAM 25,000 NEW SOVIET RIFLES FUR CUBAN ASS. OLD RIFLES BEINGI GINON

PEASANTS.

-DOTH ATTACHES ACRES CASTRO MEN CONTAINS 5,000 MIL CASTRO NON

THE IR

CANES ARE OUT IRAZ NENOYO ANO VIL IAN MOGAN SPIN UNDER COY BARQUAN LO 15 M

CANIS AND YS KEY AUTI CASTRO LEADS.

O, SOVIETS PRÉPARING SIZEABLE DOLLAR AND TO CÜP CUBX THR UCH CURRENT

ECONCHIC CRISIS.

"E. NRASSAR) SALVADOR PASSIP MS MISGIVINOS ON CUBA SITUATION BUT MUS

LITTLE AIRIT SINCE HIS PIES SEE COME MAS CASE, DIST

HEY 1389 PRODUCTION OY OTHER THAN THE ISSUNG OFFICE IS PROMIEO-P

NW 65987 Docld:1822-32-41
---

##
104-10177-10035

CLASSIFIED

LES

SÄGE

S-C-CarE-T

TO

so ix

ACTION

PAGE 2

21-3

_EXT 424* IN 11350

CITE

'З.

VARELA FAMILY WITH HIX BUT VILLARAMA DIVORCED PROS FARILY NOW IN

CUBA

1. FOR HAVA: THIS INTO NOT SENT BY OCOATH ATTACHC TO HAVA AND IS NOT

TO DE RELEASED TO ANY COYOKE AGENCY PAVA:

END OF MESSAGE:

i S 1389 PEPRODUCTION BY OTHLA THAN TAP ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMISITED.

''Copr No.

NW 65987 Docld:1822-32-41
---

