# DOCID-9460-32-28

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Date:

1201-6-1

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER:

124-10201-10236

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2781-515

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SAC, TP

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE: 1962-04-04

'PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

LST, ACT, CONTACTS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: - 1998-10-13

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:9460-32-28
---

##
4-41 (Rev. 3-5-62)

DECODED COPY

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr

Callahan

Conrad

De L oach

Evans

Malone

Rosen

Sullivan

Tavel

Trotter

Tele. Room

1olme:

Gandy

Radio

DEFERRED

Teletype

4-4-62

DIRECTOR AND SAC MIAMI

FROM SAC TAMPA

1718-0-4

SANTO

TRAFFICANTE, JRO, AKA. ARO DAILY TELETYPE. ROBERT Jo

JONES,, POl, PROTECT, ADVISED APRIL 3 THAT LOUIS P. BRADY

RETURNED ROCKY POINT BEACH MOTEL ABOUT MARCH 28 LAST AND LEFT

MARCH 29 LAST WITH DANNY LAMAR FOR MIAMI. SOURCE RELATES

LAMAR APPARENTLY HAS A LINCOLN CONTINENTAL GETTING REPAIRED

IN MIAMI. SOURCE RELATED LEONARD FRUTCHMANN HAD BEEN IN

CONTACT

WITH BRADY BUT FRUTCHMANN APPARENTLY OF OPINION BRADY

SOME TYPE CON MAN. FRUTCHMANN AND DR ANTHONY PO PERZIA

OF TAMPA, LEASE ROCKY POINT BEACH MOTEL FROM MIAMI PERSONS

WHO OWN MOTEL, GROUP HEADED BY A MR. KISMET (PHONETIC),

WHO ALSO HEADS A GROUP WHICH PRESENTLY OWN AND OPERATE

CAUSEWAY MOTEL IN TAMPAO BRADY, ACCORDING TO SOURCE, IS STILL

HOLDING A ROOM IN MOTEL

MIAMI ENDEAVOR DETERMINE BRADY'S CONNECTION WITH SUBJECT.

RECEIVED:

2:47 PM VLH

10

.

102

RES 12

92-278-515

APR 9 1962

53 APR 1 3 1962

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably

paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 65994 Docld:9460-32-28
---

