# DOCID-9263-32-35

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

9999-99-999919-94-9

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10112-10007

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

: CIA

FROM

: DIRECTOR

TO : WITHHELD

TITLE : CABLE RE MARCOS DIAZ LANZ EVACUATION

DATE

: 1959-07-22

PAGES

2

SUBJECTS

: EVACUATION

DIAZ LANZ, MARC

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

: SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

OF LAST REVIEW

: 0497-0-7

JERA COPES: 1997.07.04.13:12:66:0031-0-9 : APPEARS IO

OF PAGE 1

COPIES OF PAGE

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM

IS RESTRICTED

104-10112-10007

NW 65924 Docld:9263-32-35
---

##
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIC M. THARPENT

ROUTING

"SECRET

EXT

2287

DATE : 22 JULY 1959

3

TO : PANAMA CITY

oc: SD

DEFERRED

Ju L 22

2EO'D LABLE SECT.

ROUTINE

FROM

DIRECTOR

MIALS

E:

CONF CWH 2

INFO

COP, CCI, CTSS 2

DOS

Sc 2, CFI 2

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

F IMMEDIATE

OUF78034

TO

PACY

INFO

CITE DIR

36688

RYBAT

FOR GALBOND

FOLLOWING IS SUMMARY DEVELOPMENTS ON EVACUATION MARCOS DIAZ LANZA

11. MERTON TRAVELED HABANA-TAMPA AND RETURN 20-21 JULY AND REPORTED

ANCOO AGREED EXFILTRATE SUBJBCT 25 JULY.

ARRANGEMENTS LAID ON WITH'ODURGE

ON BASIS PATRICK I, KARNLEY WILL MELT BOAT TAPA EARLI 27 JULY: OURGE

FELT KUJUMP ASSISTANCE IN MIAMI NOT NECESSARY AND TEREFORE THEY. NOT MADE

WITTING .

2. BYERS AND WILLIAMS CONTACTED 'SUBJECT NIGHT 19 JULY AND NEPONIUD:

TO STATION HE IN GOOD SHAPE BUT EXTREMELY NERVOUS AND : CARED..

CONTACT

ARRANGEMENIS WERE SET UP BY EYERS WITH CEORGE VILLATA ESPINOSA FOR TRANSFER

SUGJNCT TO INIERMEDIARY (MCLATTER) WHO WILL TAKE HIM TO SIATION SAPEHOUSE

EVENING 23 JULY. AT STATIONIS REQUEST KURIOT SPECIALISIS ON DOCUMENTATION

AND DISGUISE ETD WASHINGTON FOR HABANA 22 JULY AND JOIN ZAMKA MIAMI EARLY

WORNING 23 JULI. ZANKA WILL CARRY DOGS AND KIT MIAMI-HABANA.

STATION FEELS

-DISCUISE NECESSARY FOR SECURE TRANSFER SAFFHOUSE TO BOAT

RETEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

"AUTHENTICATING OFf ICER

Copy No

NW 65924 Docld:9263-32-35
---

##
ORIG-:

UNIT

EXT

DATE :

TO

FROM:

DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO

sari, is

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

2

44 as

TO

DEFERRED

44:.

ROUTINE

T GILE AS

INITIALS

дето не.

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

S-IMMEDIATE

PACE 2

DIR 36688 OUT 78034

INFO

CITE DIR

BYERS AND WILLIAMS ALSO REPORTED ANTER 19 JULY CONTACT THAT SUBUECT

CONCERNED OVER SAFETY WIFE AND TWO DAUGHTERS AND WILLING SEND THEM MEXT BUT

HAD NO FUNDS HE UPSET SHE REFUSED PRIME VISA..

STATION REPORTED WHEN SHE

APPLIED FOR TOURIST VISA 8 JULY SHE WAS REFUSED BECAUSE OF SUBJECT!S "POLITICAL

EXILE STATUS" (CONSULATE UNAVARE SUBJECT STILL IN CUBA) AND "INSUFFICIENT

GUARANTEE" SHE WOULD RETURN CUBA AND. NOT SEEK POLITICAL ASYLUM PBPRIME.

STATION BELIEVES BEST VAY ASSIST FAMILY IS FOR KUBARK TO INTERCEDE NOW AT

HOS FOR ISSUANCE PRPRIME VISA IN HABANA.: HOWEVER, HES BELIEVES PREFERABLE

FAMILY GO MEXI AND HOS ATTEMPT OBTAIN ISSUANCE PBPRIME VISA IN MEXI AFTER

SULJECT'S ARRIVAL PBPRIME. HOS CABLED STATION MORNING 22 JULY IT BELIEVED

PREFORABLE FAMILY CO MEXI BUT WOULD GIVE DEFINTO ANSWER SUESEQUENTLY.

4 HOS BELIEVES IT NECESSARY FOR SUBJECT!S SECURE EVACTION THAT HE BE

ASSURED PRIOR NIS EMBARKATION 25 JULY TIAT FUNDS AVAILABLE ASSIST HIS FAMILY

GO MOXI. IN CALDOND AGREES, TOS PLANS CABLE STATION LATE 23 JULY AUTHORZING

LOU CE OA JUNDS (ESTRADEN BE STATION AE 1000 LOLNE) DOR FAMILY TRAVEL AND

SUDSTATURCE BOT

19111

VISA

THERE

Hones

PIRA:) R. COr TER:

END ON MESSAGE

SE GRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROMIDITED

Copy No.

NW 65924 Docld:9263-32-35
---

