# DOCID-4822-32-33

##
6457A Date: 11-23-2021

JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

7201-6-1

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90118-10181

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-2897-88

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

OC

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 1959-08-18

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

HARRY RAYMOND POPE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-08-17

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: TT

NW 64578 Docld:4822-32-33
---

##
2EOER7. BERETE OF INYESTIRATIOS

T. B. CEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

ECHRUNIGCLIONS SECTO.

A061 953

CRA

TELETTIE

Mr. Tolson a

Mr. Belmonti

Mr. De Loach

Mr. Mc Guire

Mr. Mohr

Mr. Parsons

Mr. Rosen.

Mr. Tamm-

Mr. Trotter.

Mr. W.C.Sullivan

Teie. Room-

NEr. Holloman

Miss Gandy-

URGENT

8-18-59

5-42

PM CST

AKO

TO

DIRECTOR, FBI AND SAC DALLAS

FROM SAC OKLAHOMA CITY

HARRY RAYMOND POPE, AKA, FUGITIVE, I.O. THREE TWO LIGHT FIVE

Wo F a TWO TWO NINE, UFAP DASH BURGLARY, ADWO DALLAS ORIGIN

REOCRAD TODAY AND PHONE CALLS OKLA. CITY AND DALLAS, AUGUST

SEVENTEEN AND EIGHTEEN, FIFTYNINE. DORIS HOWARD, PCI, OKLA.

CITY, HAS ARRANGED TO BORROW SISTER-S CAR, A FIFTYSEVEN FORD

TWO DOOR, RED OVER WHITE OVER RED, FIFTYNINE OKLA. LICENSE.

ONE DASH SIX NAUGHT FOUR NINE FOUR, FOR TRIP TO DALLAS AS

SET FORTH IN RERAD. PCI

IS TEMPERMENTAL, ROUGH IN TALK AND

ACTION AND EXTREMELY INDEPENDENT. SHE FEARS FOR HER LIFE AND

STATES SHE WILL GO TO DALLAS PROVIDED SHE CAN CONTACT AN AGENT

KNOWN TO HER AND IN WHOM SHE HAS COMPLETE CONFIDENCE BASED

UPON PREVIOUS CONTACT. SA CHARLES F. ALDEN IS HANDLING HER.

IN VIEW OF IMPORTANCE OF THIS CASE AND REQUEST OF PCI, ALDEN

WILL PROCEED TO DALLAS, A DISTANCE OF ABOUT TWO HUNDRED

TWENTYFIVE MILES VIA PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SO AS TO ARRIVE

SHORTLY BEFORE POI HE WILL REPORT TO SAC DALLAS AND RENDER

ALL POSSIBLE ASSISTANCE, UACE. PCI PRESENTLY PLANS TO LEAVE

OKLA. CITY THURSDAY MORNING, NEXT, TO ARRIVE

PAL AS AFTERNOON

5897-

END PAGE ONE

50AG R

504

Mell acres 5:30PM

EX-]33

12 AUG 21-195.

NW 64578 Docld:4822-45-33-Page 2

81'

---

##
PAGE TWO

SAME DAY. PCI WILL CONTACT DALLAS OFFICE ON CONFIDENTIAL

TELEPHONE FOR CONFERENCE AND INSTRUCTIONS HER CAR WILL BE

AVAILABLE THURSDAY NIGHT FOR ANY PURPOSE DESIRED BY DALLAS.

POPE ALLEGEDLY HAS IN HIS POSSESSION AT ALL TIMES A THREE

FIFTY SEVEN MAGNUM REVOLVER, FORTY FIVE CALIBER AUTOMATIC,

THIRTY EIGHT CALIBER SNUBNOSE REVOLVER AND A SAWED OFF

SHOTGUN HE HAS SHOT AT POLICE OFFICERS IN THE PAST AND

ALLEGEDLY HAS STATED HE WOULD KILL ANY OFFICER ATTEMPTING

TO ARREST HIM. HE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND EXTREMELY

DANGEROUS. FRYE SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ARMED AND DANGEROUS.

END

DL WILL BE ADVISED

ACK PLS

745PM OK FBI WA 1111-0-7 CRA

V

0C 10

get lo.20

NW 64578 Docld:4822-32-33
88

---

