# DOCID-1413-32-37

##
8

Date:

0805-0-2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER :

104-10161-10220

RECORD SERIES

:

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR :

: RAYMOND A. WARREN

DDOFFICE OF SECURITY

VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA (HSCA REQUEST TO INTERVIEW).

DATE

1978-08-07

PAGES

SUBJECTS: JFK ASSASSINATION

RODRIGUEZ VLADIMIR

PAPER

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 2404-0-6

: F19 : 0301-20-04-1564-10-5

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

sassination Records Collection Act

192 |44 USC 2107 Notel. Case#:N

65987 Date: 10-28-2021

[R]

ITEM IS

RESTRICTED

104-10161-10220

NW 65987 Docld:1413-32-37
---

##
SECTET

7 AUG 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director, Office of Security

FROM

SUBJECT

:

Raymond A.

Warren

Chief, Latin America Division

: Vladimir Rodriguez Lahera

1.

The House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)

has requested that we arrange an interview for them with

Subject (former AMMUG1) who defected from the Cuban Intelli-

gence Service in 1964.

Subject is now a U.S. citizen and

entered the U.S. under PL I10.

Miami,

2. Subject's last known address was 2931 SW 19th Terrace (p),

telephone (305) 443-3027. Henry S. PACHANKIS

a career associate assigned to LAMiami Station was Subject's

contact

in

the Miami area.

PACHANKIS attempted to locate

subject; however, the telephone had been disconnected and a

visit to Subiect's residence revealed that he had moved

and

left no

forwarding address.

The post office box established

for subject's use was serviced and there was no communication

from Subject notifying us of his change of address andor phone

number.

3. The HSCA considers their interview with Subject to be

extremely important and your assistance in locating the where-

abouts of Subject through your Miami office on a priority basis

would be most appreciated.

It is requested that no contact be

made with Subject when his whereabouts is ascertained since we

prefer to have someone whose bona fides

is established contact

him and arrange for the HSCA interview.

Raymond A. Warren

EZ IMPDET

CL BY 12180

SECIET

0S 8 2143

NW 65987 Docld:1413-32-37
---

