# DOCID-5548-32-37

##
104-10211-10005

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55990 Date: 10:29:2021

Best ava_-able image

17. "lay 1917

10NG99060 10: THE P1C0?s

SIGUEST: lida Porsonalitius

SOURCE:

CATE OF LIFORSATION:

1072-71

1.

The i5d building in minsk is co Lorinskiy

pchi.

The

There is

another

entranceit

prus-

olojarstogo 2.

building

occupies

entire cily block ind has its oun

arison withia ihis

ar33.

linsti.

Anatolly leasandrovich

NO Tiv ES

at

the

Bom

in 1948

louse

of sciontific Workers.

prospelt Lenina, Agt. 12,

linsi.

He is 168 co. tall.

has

a solid build

(ne is.,

forcer 0y..0050), 11010 hair, lazel

cyes.. and a soft-looking

facu

with groainent red veins.

Wien

conversing.

he has

the navit of

laoking downward

inca

and

suddenly

raising

his

eyes

to look u,.

Source

does

not consider hin to be particularly intelligent but rather

as having a "crafty, peasani approach to life."

Mi SLi ON is the soo of Aleksandr Miriforovici

AKSti ON, a nenser

tre Sentral comnitire and Second secre-

tarj of

the belorussian CP.

This makes the father the second

higies: ranking Party official in

ti: delorussian 553.

Il e

has bien characterizad as a ruthless carecrist.

The rother

is a physician uno no lunger practices.

49

I APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA MISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

SHERIT

.?.

B .

Mistr Ov's wife is Tat'yand nee KOd URAKOVA,

bom in 1950 or 1951, in Dzerziinst-on-I'olga.

nad vantic Anatoliy

to marry the daughter of another rier-

bur

of tue belorussian CO, Aleisey Mekseyevich Shlklor,

and this nas caused nuch conflict between fater and son,

in aúdition to that already generated by the con's heavy

drinking and his frequently getting into trouble when

drund.

Ae Stin Y is afraid of his father. In ercer to curry

favor vito her father-in-lav, aïstaoy's wife reports epi-

sodes of her iusband's drunken denavior to lini.

mi SLiors fight frequently

at tho time of the source's departire they were living

apari..

The

Nite

is materialistic and takes advantage of

er iusband's position.

Sire deals frequently on the black

rarket.

Binsk.

Dey iave a daugncer, Galina, bom in 1973 in

ANSE IOV nas a urnther sio works for die C6, CASU in

and a sister.

Ai SLAON attended

Minst liddle School 24 to-

yether vien source, gradualing

He graduated fro

ire French Departrent of the Minsk siate Pedanonical Insti-

iute of Foreign Languages in 1912, aiter shich, on his

ratior's irsistence,

scinol (apparently

in Minsk), graduating

as a lieutenant in 1973.

He has since been working as an operations

officer (operupolmonocnents) in the Operations Departrent

operativnyy gidel or operoidel! of the kas in Minsk.

first

assigurent was at the Yubileynaya Hotel; follored sy

the Turist hotel, and

at present. ne is responsible for tie

rubileynaja Hotel.

He holds the rank of senior lieutenant.

F. After beconing a KGB officer, ANSENDY continued

to associate with the source and other classmates, and through

irin the source

ret a number of otier KGB officers

and was asle

to leam something about certain KGB operations in the linsi

EORICH, Yuriy (pru).

Bem in about 1950.: He is

no son of a lice neneral (fnu). Bo RICil is apo: 180 co. tall,

chin, nas light hair wilich no parts en the left side. He is

65990 Docid:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

SEEI

3 -

3 quiet person.

le plays one quitar.

He and his wife are

vati graduates of tile tinsi state Pedagogical lustitute of

foreign Languages.

He speaks Gerran and English.

BORICH

vas on assignent in The detherlands (for the KGS, the

source trinist, had returned

retum to the lethorlands just before

herty to doctort we souzche

to linsk but was scheduled to

tie Source's depar-

iure.

Bom in about 1949. lle

has blond hair aud deeply

set cyas.

The source describes bin as clurisy, mith a crude-

looking

face, and as

"stupid but crafty".

agrajuate

of the Kinsk

State Pedagogical Institute of Foreian Lan-

quages and vas an informer mile a siudent there.

CHISTYY

served in tire army.

He is a Ni GG officer, he works with

SKSEMOV

(see paragrapis i) in ene

Operations Departnent. le

is a heavy drinker and sroker.

5.

a face, according

cog.

GURl Y (Enuesource, vnici resenoles that

pnu) is 173 cm. tall, burly, and has

of a bulla

is a KGB najor, works in the dirsk k GB Uperations

Department, and serves

as the oversier (kurator) of the Minsk

Hotel, which is about 11 miles to

the west of the city.

LAPSHOY

Vladinir (pnu). Bom in abour 1946. He

is sisort (Too cn.).

nair.

blue ayes.

leavy-set, looks like a boxer, has

and a birtinark on the left side of his face.

ile has a penetrating gaze.

He was fornerly a black marketeer. He is a con-

struction engineer, he has been to tran but now works in los-

He showed some sort of

idencification minich prompiad tie nilitiaman to salute hin

and let nin

married to the daughter of cosmonaut Pavel

Ivanovich BäLYAYEV

milo died on 10 January 1370.

LAPSHOV

to dress well and is constiered by source to be a snow-

off.

HOLOCHi O, Viktor nikolayevich.

Bom in about 1946.

de is the

son of the Minister of Trade of tie Belarussian SSR,

diolay Petrovica MOLOCHKO. Vixtor HOLOCHKO at present is a

lieutenant in the KGB Operations Department (Querotdel).

is snort, fat, mas dark hair, is married and iras children.

-SETIET

51

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

S.

HOROL (Fun, mu), sores for the pos.

lie has been

ii Africa on assisurent.

possibly with tilitary or economic

nid.

and ias published a vorá

1:0202 always moves

in ifs circles.

ile is married to the deunter of a lieuten-

ant general

(roneral leptenaud)o. nao cordanos an

Arry.

is siore (aupur Tu T ca.) los bulging ejes:

a short neck, and

looks

"line a toad."

!!e

volga, a sensation

in 111.5r.

as only a fei uf these cars por jear, are allocated

for civilian purchase.

Yaids Prolog'yorich.

is a lieutenant

russian SSR i GG.

le is a friond of Alel sandr likiforovici

mis Ed Y (see paragrapa 1).

10.

Paral o

alessandr (anu).

Is a retired kgs najor.

formerty a depui, carotof the Minst ibe nperotoel and

an inrediato superior no indioli, rotaor.

soilits daurnter,

Ljudila,

a graduate di tie tling, siate lecagogical insti-

luid cr

forcicu Languages and is a friend of ine source.

11.

Si Cil EYKO,

riadinir (phu).

com in about 1940. ic

was tie only persen

mo tradiated

frou a kuls school (apparently

in Minsi) mith the rama of junior lieutenant, because of dis

bad ceravior.

He was later expulled from the Ic B for excessive

Srinüing

and now

moris at the neteorological station in llinsi.

its wife's nace

is

Tawara.

SAZAi OVICH (fnu, pau). Is a ide colonel, Chief of

the Special

NGơ.

Departrent Tosobes

otdel) of the Belorussian SSR

SAZAi OVICH interrogated a black marioteer, a friend of

t:re

source.

13.

SURGA.1O, Yeygenis Fedorovich.

Bom about 1945.

Is a ti Gü officer.

a graduate of the plysics

Departnent

of the selorussian State university.

His tather is Fedor

Anisitovich suf Ghiot. Chairnai of tie presidium of the Gelo-

russian SSa Suprede Soviet.

Yevgeniy SURGA:10 is about 190 cm.

His left sioulder

tiran lie rigit.

14..

lle is a a Captain in the Belo-

russian äth.

for Philharronic

Archestra but

das been replaces.

lis sile's name is sritlana, she has bom

1n 1940.

Tricy iano a daugirder, Anna, bom 8 March 1972.

At

iearning to drive a bus.

Interviewer's

This possibly indicates that ZEd OVICa may have been

Tirad Tron tio k00.

5c

2

NW 65990 Docid:5548-32-37-Page 4

---

##
!

104-10211-10005

CAPESOSAO;

INPORATION REFLUT

Thic debricfeà:

it seut

SULJECT : Landor Sb ID of the KGB in 8ho Srovlaces

1264

COUNCE !

li OSSIKO

ource preparad the 1051-10-1B6 chart sad consanto

DO I DOROTOTA DEDIUNRADE.

Landerbig of tha YGII

1a t Do Proriacos

Rostovskaya Dblest

Ch Le P of tho Vill: TUSCHENKO, TU. P.

Chlor , 200 Dept. UNGB: COl. GASILIN

Uzhgorodakkie Colant

CHIES O1 t IA UNGH: COL. XOVEMIR'

Deputy caled of the Ui GE: COl. Lin Di

Chlor of Daputy Chlol US a sectlua of 8ho 20d

Dopt: ASTHSLIK

CARITRED KOR, LOldarshaja E38:

GODOTAl BAYCENRIO

81558 CHlos Directorato)

DED. Chal TOss KUB: Ma JOr OF It. COl. MARISLY

LIEDURAla D ES3

Doputy Cha Irsa D, IGB, LIt AURAIn O BBR:

Col. KOROPLENKO

(ran chle! oti

ВОСЕЛОД 18 Хоксої

1760-1-0)

B-7-C-HFA-T

8

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

-

5-1-5-T

-2-

Folgo rauskaya Oblaat

Ch IOS USOB: Ma JOr GOn, IL'ICHEV

Deputy Calo! UKGB: COl, YESIKOY, B.8.

Ch101 2ad Dopt: Col. BäLOV

GOOTHIAN 888

Char Ras BOB: Ba JOr GOB. INAURI

Ch101 Bud Dept: COl, KERYALISHVILI

Dep. Ch101 2od Dopt: Lt. Col. NOVIISKl Y

Chias of a Sectios of the 2ad Dept: Major Ya. B. GORIYBLI

Ukrajalan BSB

Cha IFERa SOB: MAJOr GOROSAl NIRITCHENKO

DOD. Ch AITESA XGB: COl, SHUL'ZIRNKO (Party TOrk Os)

DOD. Ch AISIAA KGB: Col. KRIXUX (IRA Obla S of 2nd Directorate

Ch18! Bad DIFACTOFATO BILDO BI: COl. BRAZHKO (DIJOS t O

tula do vas chios of UKOB

10 Khas' kor 205 2 Jears --

РАТТУ ТОТКОГ)

DEP. Chias 2ad Directorato: Col. I.H, BULDALDY

Ch1os, lat DOpt Of 20d Directorato SOB: LI. Col. A. KOVAL'

(ras Ch108 of tho

and Dopartasat 18

des Ba)

Chiol o: a Boction of the lat Dept, 20u Directorato:

ht. col.

NIKOLAYEY (UAT1I 1963, LO MRB deput Y Chle I

of tha lat departaent, and Directorato)

Ch1e1 of Boction ("Black Marhot") of 80n0 Dept, 20d

DIFact Osato:

Lt. COl. PETRANTO, VI. St.

В ВЄ-Т-3-1

9

NW 65990 Döcld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

B-BE BET

-3-

UKGB Leniazradakaya Oblast

Ca108: Col. SHUMILOY, V.I.

DED. Ch IOs: COX. U.Y. POCHATION

Do D. Ca Los: COl, LYARIN (805 Cadres)

Ch108 08 tho 20d-Dopt.: It. COl. V.I. DEMIDOY (he 10

also assistant tothe Cider, UNOB)

DOp. CAl OS Of tha and Dopt.i ME, COL, SAVEL'YEY, V.Y.

Ch IO! Of a Section 01 the 30d Dept: Capt. Ront. SURNOV

Motoas

The socord baparisent hus 170-180 erons.

LE. Col. Q.I. PCALLIN Ma S SOMATl Y Chl OS

L8 DON URGB repr OSenta TIVO 10 One ol tho

Lantagrad C1J districts rayaa.

UKGD, Irkutstays Obleat

Chios al tha d Ad DODE, UNGB: SEREZIIN

USCB, Kaschetokay Oblost

CHIal of the 8ad Dop E: LE. COL. M.N SINASHIO

1GB, Latvias SBR

doputy Chelsman:

Co L. A.P. PALKIN (ras calor 01 800

dept la Loniagrad)

Ch Ial O8 2ad Dept: COl. TA.P. MISILEY (TAS BEJOF

CABO Off ICer la the 2ad Dept Of tha

zad Chio! Directorato of the EGB

10 Новоот, 59-60)

UKa B, L'TOTskaya Oblast

Chief: Col. SHEYCHENTO

BEGRET

10

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37 Page7

---

##
104-10211-10005

- 4.

UKGB f Or the CIt Y Of MOcor and Mascon Oblast

Chief: MAJOr GOD. SUETLICHNYY

Dop. Ch101: COl. VORCHIN

DOP. Ch Lot: COl. GRISHENKOY OF GRIEHNENROY

Ck101, 20d Dopt: COL, VABINKOY, I. Ya.

Dop. Chior, 20d Dop E: Lt. COL. SIYAZEY

Dop. Chle R, 20d Dept: YEFREMENKO

Ch IE! Of a Sect Ion, a Dd Do Dt: ELOKHIN

Ch108 of a Se Ct IOn, 20d DEpt: Let. COl. GURABOV, P.M.

(ID TDIS BUOTION, ICONO 1O A STOUD Of DOr KUr S

- 3 persona - tho aro enanged in CB operationg

In tho 101lOr1a3 hotels in the city of doscus

(and in the restaurants of these hotela):

"USt Anb In O", "TUri SE",

"Yaroslarsiaja", Elevskaya",

"'sentral'Daya", "Ardonlya', plus one otbor.)

UKGB, Stavropol 'BEly kra

Caler: COl. TAMASOY

Calor, 28d Dapt: COL, BORODKIN, X.

Stavropol'skly XJay UNGB Ropresentat IVO 1n the Clties

of Kislorodak and Yes Bentuk1: Lt. Col. POr ESAl, S.I.

ITABDOd ATEKLy Kr AY

Ca Le S, UXGS" COl. TETDOXINENTi O

Ch101, 20d Department: COl. BABICH

Deputy Chief, UXAB:

Col. AXINOV (Do 18 also Iras DOdarably

Iray UIGB roprosentative 10 the

city of sachswhere alal deputy in

AIVARDZHI.)

11

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

84-6-97815

Unhok ESX (618y 0s Trablsat)

Chalra Ra, KGB: NAJOS Ge Ner Al NATHUBHIN (POn Der CAle!

0l tha JOB Pe TEORDOl Disoctorato)

Chlor, 20d Diroctorato: Cal. AZIKOY

Deputy Ch1O1, 20d DIroctorato: VOBLCHANOY

Chios of a Dopartment, 2nd Directorazo: KARAVAYSY, M.N.

Doputy Calol Of a Dopt, 20d Diractorato: KOZLOVSKIY

Xoto: At the boginalag of 1061, YEVDOXINENIO and

SAYBUSAIN DOr O t O SUIt CH p OSIti On S -

TBVDUKINFIXO 1D TABDIODE a Rd MAYNUSHIN

in arcanadar.

Le bardino-Beltarskaya

188B

Chassara, Len: Col. A. Hi SEl Y (at the bozlaniag of

1964, Da vas to tocone kob Chalrnas of

tho azukh SSA in place of kajor Ga Doral

ARSTIUBINOY, Uh O rot ITod OR 8 PORB100

due to 11lnoas at the and 01 1163)

IGB, Ar OSAIAA SER

Cha Lra Ja: Ma JOr GODOr AL BADAXYANTS

Ch Ios, 2Ad Dopa:suests COl, DALALYAN

Casos of a Boct Ios, Ded Departzent: HASTIROBOY

Daputy Chalra Rn: COl. A. M'HINOV

Ca Jor, 20d Doparteon E: L8. Col, ALIBEY, G.A.

Soctle Chles, 2nd Dept: MAJOr BANISERIT, Y.

Bost Ias Chiel, 20d Dop E: TARIVERDIYTY

Chios, 0T0 (Oporativso-tokhalchoaxly Otdol): KULl YIY

1150-01-507

12

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

"".

-б-

:

GOT'ROVOKHYa Ob LADE

Chies, UNGB: Ma Jos Go Deral GOZSi KOY

Ch101, 20d Dept UIGB: Col, GAYARNOV, A.

Siareropol'skaya Oblust

Sincoropol'Saya Oblast UNGB Represent: 11ve 1a Yalta:

Eurbyshovskays Oblast

Ch Ief UEGB: KREMLEY

Yled1z1rokaya Oblot

Ch IDI UAGE: Co L. V.A. ILXVIN (forerly chior of ix

repartment, ind Chief Directorato, AGES

Gonel'skaja Obl Ist

D101 LAGS: Col. KAYDALs (IOTBOILY Chi OI O 201

rectorato, KGB Of tbe Bolorussian 53.

Ode Bskaya Oblast

Daputy Chlo S UXGB: BANDURISTYY (POr Derly deputy Ch Iu S

of the 20d Diroctorato, KOB Of Ebo

Ukra1D160 582-1956)

Doptuy CHLOS, 30d Dapartoont Sa ILor

IGB, BOLOFUBALRO SS

CA108, Bad Directorata: SHIRNOY

Ch101 of 8 Nepartment, 20d Diructorate: GRUZDEY

Deputy Chial of a Departmant: V. SUDARILOV

Magada Rskass Oblot

Ch Ias UKGB:

COl. I.H. DABATOY (1n 1982 Vas Ch IO! O?

section of the and Ch Ial Mc OCt Orl E, KUB)

BERG-BEI

13

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

YPEPA.DU! TUS RIZ RECOFD

NOSENKO

DATE CP I. TO VIEN 20 062. 1564

4i to tron tho ind lapaizzont 10 tzagorod sorkod with you?

A: The Chies or the na baparteent.

I don't s Eitretas bis

Dano jubt son, but Do 1a los Dopity Chlo!, Lado, Unagurad

In addition to this -

O: Most von the sioat's job or poolllun 1o O'098a?

A: I don't kaos, and I ta ED't later Osted la anti De bla.

Q: Hu N did tho Ra NDt ret Ur I DO OCOBAST

As I don't inor. I sasn't Interoated. This la the vork of

Too guy bad bis role

so play. Ha care, ald ilo part, and 101t.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

14

Mi5099 Doeld: 5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

A :

8.:

1.810:589

Bre 2a1 Departe are cars

.: 17...

1rg...

1'148

Tlie apent was or thie

148 81000 08 in h010l. 1419

:e 19:8

A11e2'".

i:,"

(H13

0809-90-1 815

18::11i0 1r lock tre

o: 0805-14-988 tou da dle lolal?

On te 219 08 Örd tier.

8:

Here mart Jan the total?

A: I dun I romerbos, out 10 the dan sotel.

A:

In Moscoe I 980 his paotugraph dad the uperational

ріССЙТЕВ

enal more tado.

Did jou seke any inlephone calle ur sund ary talograss

10 diese 06"?

A:

This pas duse by the 2nd Doparsoone an langurud, L'vor.

Inty

ugag VCh.

I told chre so du dochire

in teen and

Einsk. rochirg. no surreallance.

Qi Unde notel 1id you stay lo in I'vor?

A: I doa'8 tessabes.

That Polel did jou alay to in Miask?

A: I don'8 remarbor. So -Morol Belorussla.

Q: Shich 0981 cers helped you la I'viv?

A: 1 me в8t by a tuy.

I don't knon bag nace.

I neerles

nurbid E. Juar a cat fros du alrpore to the city.

8r.

the erandog des

: Which officers helped vou in ylook?

A: Ca Bo 0ff1rero sl the lad DESSILIUNLUC KGB. Bel0-R1r01s.

I reasses d901r 088dde ind gold? dadro nood anychaid..

NW 65990 Docld:5548-32-37
---

##
104-10211-10005

Leperimet

spake trare with the ilint if the din

110ar19t.41

KGN 1i10-F551a.

Deputi Chief of the End

16

слог'""""

WW. 85998 Docld: 5548-23-7
---

