# DOCID-7849-32-28

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2015-5-7

AGENCY :

RECORD NUMBER :

RECORD SERIES :

FBI

124-10198-10125

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1899

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

FBI

FROM:

ROEMER, WILLIAM F. JR.

TO:

DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE :

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Flecords Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE: 1966-09-27

' PAGES:

14

SUBJECTS :

SGI, SURVEILLANCE, ASSOC, MCGUIRE, PHYLLIS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

1998-04-03

OPENING CRITERIA :

INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:7849-32-28
161

---

##
9-17-65)

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

REPORTING OFFICE

CHICAGO

TITLE OF CASE

OFFICE OF ORIGIN

CHICAGO

DATE

92766

REPORT MADE BY

INVESTIGATIVE PERIOD

614 - 91966

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka

SA WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR.

CHARACTER OF CASE

AR

REFERENCE: Rep Urt it SO WILLIAM F. ROENER, JR. dated 62166,

P-

TYPED B'

1rs

ENCLOSURES

TO BUREAU (2)

Enclosed for the Bureau are two copies of letterhead

memorandum setting

forth characterization of informants utilized

in instant report. (V

Case has been:

1g quet one year it Yes

APPROVED

COPIES MADE:

3.

Bureau (92-3171) (Enets. 9)

44484 Sessi

No; Pending prosecution over six months

Yes: No

SPECIAL AGENT

IN CHARGE

DO NOT WRITE IN SPACES BELOW

92-3171-899 2661

1 - USA, Chicago

2 - Chicago (92-349)

Agency

Request Recd.

Date Fwd.

How Fid.

By

Dissemination Record of Attached Roport

C. AAG. Criminal Division,

Organized Crime and Racketcering

Section, Recm_

3

195C

Notations

STAI

NW 65994 Docld:7849-32-28
---

##
CG 92-349

LEAD

CHICAGO

AT CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

report the activities

INFORMANTS

continue to follow and

Source

T-1,

PCI MARY. KAY

MC ALLISTER

T-2,

CG 6855-C-TE

T-3

CG 6621-C

T-4,

PCI ARTHUR MILLER

T-5,

MICHAEL CARROLL,

Investigator,

District Attorney's

Office,

Denver, Colorado

T- 6,

CG 6690-C-TE

I-T,

CG 6533-0

Date of Contact and

Contacting Agent

On numerous occasions during

June, July, August, and

September,

to SA WILLIAM

F. ROEMER, JR.

71866, to SA RUSSELL R

GIRSCH

9766, to

SA JOHN R. BASSETT

9966, to

SA EUGENE I. SATHER

81766, to

SAs of Denver Office

T-8

MI 623 - C-TE

62866, to

SA LEENARD A. WOLF

6566, 61466, to

SA VINCENT L. INSERRA and

MAX R. FRITSCHEL

61666,

to

SAs of Milwaukee Office.

B*

COVER PAGE

1108- 10198

NW 65994 Docld:7849-32-28
---

##
In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-349

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

September 27, 1966

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to report of special Agent Willian

" Roemer, or. dated and captioned as above.U,

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

Chicago T-i is an individual who is in a position

to observe the residence

almost continuous basis. (U) Glancana on what amounts to an

Chicago T-2 is a close associate of a

top leader

of organized crime in the Chicago area. (U)

Chicago T-3 is

an associate

organized crime in the Chicago area (U)of some members of

Chicago I-4 is an indivdual, who by reason of his

employment, is in a position to observe occurances in the

vicinity of Giancana's residence in Oak Park, Illinois.(U

Chicago T-5 is an individual closely associated

with Phyllis Mc Guire. (U)

Chicago T-6 is an individual associated

with

some

members of organized crime in the Chicago area. (U)

Chicago T-7 is an individual who is in a position

to observe occurances on almost a continuous basis at the

former headquarters of Giancana, now known as Giannotti's

Restaurant and Lounge. (U)

ale: 8604-51-529

COPIES DESTROYRA

This document contains neither

recommendations

893 MAY 24. 7210-1-4r conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is leaned to your agency; it and its contents

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 65994 Docld:7849-32-28
---

##
In Reply, Please Refer to

File No.

92-349

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Chicago, Illinois

September 27, 1966

SAMUEL M. GIANCANA

ANTI-RACKETEERING

Reference is made to report of Special Agent Willian

Roemer, Jr. dated and captioned as above.(U)

CHARACTERIZATION OF INFORMANTS

Chicago I-I is an individual who is in a position

to observe the residence of Giancana on what amounts to an

almost continuous basis. (v)

Chicago I-2 is a close associate of a top leader

of organized crime in the Chicago area. (U)

chicago T-3 is an associate of some members o1

organized crime in the Chicago area.(v)

Chicago T-4 is an indivdual, who by reason of his

employment, is in a position to observe occurances in the

vicinity of Giancana's residence in Oak Park, Illinois.(U)

Chicago T-5 is an individual closely associated

with Phyllis Mc Guire. (4)

Chicago T-6 is an individual

associated

with some

members. of organized crime in the Chicago area.(U

Chicago T-7 is an individual who is in a position

to observe occurances on almost a continuous basis at the

former headquarters of Giancana, now known as Giannotti's

Restaurant and Lounge (U)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

SIDED

DATE42484 67585 RPGBI

This document contains neither recommendations

nor conclusions of

the FBI. It is the property of the

FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents.

are not to be distributed outside your agency.

NW 65994 Docld:7849-32-28
---

