# DOCID-3928-32-37

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10506-10022

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

LA DIV WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

: CIA

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

SUBJECTS

MEMO ON TELEPHONE CONVERSATION

1976-10-18

2

JFK. ASSASSINATION

LLAGOSTERA

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1B

CURRENT STATUS:

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

2904-0-6

COMMENTS: JFK-WF03 : F7 : 0329-20-04-6900-10-6

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note].

Canet:W 65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10506-10022

NW 65990 Docld:3928-32-37
---

##
SECRET

18 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT:

oscar CONCEPC I ON MENDOZA (SICAPRICE- (SLCAPRICE-1)

The following information was uncovered during a review

of Cuban operational files. It should be brought to the attention

of CLACOG, and made a part of SLCAPRICE-I's official 201 file:

a .

A conversation from a telephone tap of the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City, 22 November 1963: Marta, Oscar's wife,

tells LLAGOSTERA (Jose LLAGOSTERA Garcia, gardner at the Cuban

Embassy in Mexico City and reportedly G-2) to tell Oscar that

he forgot some of the candy. LLAGOSTERA says that their plane

will not arrive until 1615 hours.

Marta is sending the candy

to someone in Cuba and she doesn't want Oscar to forget it.

LLAGOSTERA tells Marta that a good man died today. Marta replied

really, who? KENNEDY, says LLAGOSTERA. Marta laughs,. tells

LLAGOSTERA not to forget to tell Oscar about the candy. (Copy

of tape is attached.)

b. From SLCAPRICE-I's 201 file: In 1964 AMNIP-1

(Miguel ROCHE Monroy - DGI defector) suggested to SLCAPRICE-1

that the latter meet with CIA to talk about ridding Cuba of

Communism.

S] was

non-committal. S-I met with Bob Shaw_in

1964. S-1 was recruited by CIA in 1975. During a debriefing

at that time, S-I said that he reported to the DGI in 1964

AMNIP-1's recruitment pitch to him, but said that he did

mention Bob Shaw's name.

Felipe Acevedo

genifere

see atten fide for abort nite

NW 65990 Docid:3928-32-37
---

##
Note by Annie Goodpasture: 18 Feb 77. The attached transcript

was from a LIFEAT tap of the home of CONCEPCION. The same call

appears in a LIENVOY transcript which was from a tap on the Cuban

Embassy office phone, copy attached in Spanish (347 in margin indicates

call) -

NW 65990 Docld:3928-32-37 Page

---

