# DOCID-2085-32-20

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : SSCIA

RECORD NUMBER : 157-10004-10196

RECORDS SERIES :

CABLE

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : INCOMING # 6840 DIR # 6064-8-8

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DIRECTOR, CIA

TO : MEXICO CITY

TITLE :

CONFESSION OF GILBERTO ALVARADO

DATE : 0163-1-2

PAGES : 1

SUBJECTS :

ALVARADO, GILBERTO

CONFESSING TO FABRICATION OF HIS STORY

FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS FROM WASHINGTON

DURAN, SILVIA

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : U

RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B, IC, DONOR REST., REFERRED

CURRENT STATUS : X

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 0994-0-8

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 66000 Docld:2085-32-20
Date:0694-0-8

Page: 1

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

---

##
Ts:"

DISTR:

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 195

CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

AS SANFRIZED

27 Jul IE CLASSi FIED MESSAGE

'7

АСТ:О"::

DATE: D1 DEC

53

INFO:

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

FILE:

INITIALS

DTG

TO

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

INITIALS

PHO

INFO

2577-32-1

8840

IMMEDIATE MEXI

РУБА

GPELOORA

REF MEXI 7168

MANA*

CIA HAS "

SOR

DECLE

RELEASE UT ITS LOCUMENT

1 WHITE HOUSE,

ODACIO, AND DENVYPHERE ALL ADVISED

5981-19-188593

CITE

DIR 85054

NUMAER

ALVARADO

CONFESSED HE FABRICATED HIS STORY. PLS GIVE LITEMPO S

OUR OFFICIAL

THANKS FOR HIS HELP.

2 BECAUSE, THE RESOLUTION OF THIS CASE WILL BE CLOSELY SCRUTINIZID

I THE UP-COMING REVIE OF THIS ENTIRE EPISODE, PLS ASCERTAIN AND CABLE

IN AS TINE PERMITS THE DETAILS OF HOW THE CONFESSION WAS OBTAINEE;

BHAT THREATS, PROMISES, INDUCEMENTS, AND TACTICS WERE USED BY

LITIMPO E

WAS ALVARADO PHYSICALLY MISTREATED? MUCH? PLS LEARN

WHETHER ALVARADO ACTUALLY DID HEAR THE FALSE RADIO REPORT ABOUT

OSWALD'S MAKING A FIVE THOUSAND DOLLAR BANK DEPOSIT AND USE THAT IN

HIS STORY.

3.

I MANIA!

AND MEXI PLEASE CLARIFY WITH ERYTHROLD S.AND NIC MILITARY

ATTACHE TETHER ALVARADO WAS STILL THEIR AGENT WHEN HE VISITED CUBAN

EMBASSY. PLS KEEP TRACK OF ALVARADO'S WHEREABOUTS AND URGE THE MICS

NOT TO DO AWAY WITH HIM ANSWER ROUTINE.

LO PIE CONTINUE TOOPALO: ALL LEADS AND TIPSO THE QUESTION DE

WISTHER OSTLUÃN

SOLELY ON HIS DUN HAS STILL NOT BEEN FINALLY

RESOLVED.

5.

CIA

PLS CAPLE ANY RESULTS OECIESTOSTIOINTEPRCGATION OF SILVIA PURI:

NW 66000 Docld:2085-32-20
(44)

---

