# DOCID-7211-32-27

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Dates

0201-4-1

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER: 180-10131-10326

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED TESTIMONY

AGENCY FILENUMBER: 8321-0-0

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

PHILLIPS, DAVID ATLEE

TO :

TITLE:

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

1978-05-11

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#: NW

66000 Date: 11-04-2021

CIA, METHODOLOGY

PHILLIPS, DAVID A.

CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: TRANSCRIPT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted

CURRENT STATUS:

Withhold

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

1993-08-21

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 5

N9.1

NW 66000 Docld:7211-32-27
---

##
CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO

DECLASSIFICATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

3164x

OUTSIDE CONTACT

REPORT

Reproduces

noldings

ot

the

National

Archives

HSCA

(RG

233)

GIAHAS NO OBJECTION TO

KENNEDY DECLASSIFISATION ANDOR

RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT

AS SANITIZED

8321-0-0

DATE 51178

TIME 11:00

I.

Identifying Information:

Name David Atlee Phillips.

Address_

Type of Contact:

xx Telephone

Person

Telephone_

365-2238

II.

III.

Summary of Contact:

I called Mr. Phillips to ask him about his testimony on 2776-1-1 that there

were two or three cameras covering the Cuban Embassy and Consulate in 1963.

Mr. Phillips said that he was not absolutely sure about that but his

recollection was that there were two cameras. One covered the Embassy

enterance because they were interested in the political visitors, and the

other covered the Consulate because they were interested in people who

were traveling to Cuba. He said his recollection is reinforced by his

memory of going back over the photos looking for Oswald after the assass!

nation when he knew that Oswald had been at the Consulate. He said that

it may, have been that there was a manned photo base covering the Embassy

entrance and

"impulse" camera covering the consulate entrance. Mr.

Phillips was

not sure about when Saturday coverage was instituted. He

sure

that the Embassy and Consulate would have been covered during

business hours, at least.

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

Signature:.

NW 66000 Docld:7211-32-27
dan hardway

Hardia

Form #:

---

