# DOCID-6791-32-40

##
104-10167-10146

O UNCLASSIFIED

_..

HOM:

2.

3.

03

Sire Bernolds

Miss Tharpe

5.

10.

1т.

12

1J.

La.

15.

NW 65987 Docld:6791-32-40
Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55.487 Date: 10-26-2021

CONS DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

по.

DATE

21 July 1959

DATE

COMO PRANCED!

128

OFFICERS

INFALS

1-2: Pls. not last

live of Para. 2.

I'm in forming hir face

228 Jaig.

We shortel

tell atlas

from rene pre forebly

after surfacing.

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

RETURNITO CIA

Background Use Only.

Do Not Réproduce

1BR

---

##
104-10167-10146

SEC!

27 July 1959

HORAIDUR FOR Ti E RISCORD:

Lo Since Colosel King had not spoken with eltber General Cabell

Or HI. Heles concoralaz Analeting far TOs Dias LAnz In cocdsg to tha

States, and si De Iel her kr. Dahl Etes nor lr. Leynolds] loes eey- 03

this about Buy such courerestion vich the Dir Ector, efter discussing

tale satter vita 1S. Felia ca 27 Juli, and upon It. Heles' racoren-

detlot, I talepbonod tix Directos. conceralag ible satter.

2. The Director cald be bad not discursed this with Colonel

King, and asked me viest yes the 1860e. I seld thet I new state ilovin

det not like the lies of us berliz broust this man into toe country,

and suould no tall tiara. the Director assed de ubera the sea tas

on I tali his be vas son in florits asi tast i lad roceived instrue-

toas iron Calonel El Iz to bring lis up here and take bla arallable

o the intelligence commitji Ise i Irector sald be did not think.

It vas a 80oê 1800 f Or Harroe to cose bere noo, and recessended te

AVAILABLE TO THE INTEL CCMMINITT.

3a Ine idroctor's inotructions as abore vera complled vitt.

RODOLFE E COEEZ.:

яска

PRET

2 BR

NW 65987 Docld:6791-32-40
---

