# DOCID-7823-32-28

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2015-5-7

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-10198-10099

RECORD SERIES :

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

92-3171-1874

Document Information

ORIGINATOR :

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

FBI

SAC, CG

DIRECTOR, FBI

Released under the John F. Kenhedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65994 Date: 11-01-2021

DATE:

'PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

1966-08-11

3

SGI, ASSOC, ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION:

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

4

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

1998-03-31

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS :

v9.1

NW 65994 Docld:7823-32-28
153

---

##
TELETYPE UNIT.

AUG 1 1. 1966

ENCODED MESSAGE

Mr. Tolson.

Mr. De Lroach.

Mr. Mohr-

Mr. Wick.

Mr. Casper

Mr. Callahan

Mr. Conrad

Mr. Felt

Mr. Gale

Mr. Rosen

Mr. Sullivan

Mr. Tavel

Mr. Trotter.

Tele. Room.

Miss Holmes.

Miss

Gandy

WAS.

- NR 2 5:03 PM CDST

URGENT: 8-11-66

EMS

TO DIRECTOR.

FROM CHICAGO 13p

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

HEREN:

SAMUEL M

GIANCANA, AKA. AR. DO CHICAGO, PS MACKER

PEI JAMES PATMORE ADVISED LATE EVENING AUGUSY EN LAST

THAT HE WAS VISITED AT HIS SOUTH SIDE HOME, ABOUT EIGHT PM

YESTERDAY, BY GIANCANA WHO WAS ACCOMPANIED BY MAN INTRODUCED

AS FORE BUCET: AFTER FEW MONSIES OF GENERAL COWVERSATION LU

GIANCANA ASKED PCI IF HE WOULD TAKE ON A JOB. CONVERSATION:

INDICATED THAT JOB WOULD BE IN NEW YORK CITY WITHIN TWO WEEKS. PCI'S

BACKGROUND AND GENERAL TENOR OF CONVERSATION LED PCI TO BELIEVE

THAT JOB MIGHT BE A CONTRACT TO HIT SOME UNKNOWN. GIANCANA AND

BUCCIERI LEFT TO LET PCI THINK OVER OFFER AND SAID THEY WOULD RETURN

IN ABOUT AN HOUR AFTER VISITING FRIEND IN AREA. AFTER THEIR

DEPARTURE PCI LEFT HOME TO PLACE CALL TO CHICAGO OFFICE. UPON

RETURN OF PCI TO RESIDENCE, HIS WIFE ADVISED THAT GIANCANA AND

BUCCIERI HAD RETURNED TO HIS HOME BURING HIS ABSENCE AND LEFT

LEAVING MESSAGE THAT PCI SHOULD COME, TO GRILL AT HARLEM AND

END PAGE: ONE

REC-42

0317-7-2

1874

5

AUG

EX. 104

76 AUG 1'6 1966

1966

NW 65994 Docld:7823-32-28
---

