# DOCID-3118-32-27

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

9201-4-1

AGENCY : HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10145-10331

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

55-01-35

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM: CIA

TO :

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act ol

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

5E000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

0000-00-00

10

CIA, FILES

BLANCH, ANTONIO VECIANA

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 2003-01-01

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 30

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
ANTONIC VECIANA BLANCH

201-2966-3-1

DELETIONS:

FBI:

SECHE!.

2524-11-11

82477 NC 22315

82477 NC 22222

71377 NG 83138

Foreign Liason Report

31474 RE: Reptd financial attempt to sabotage Cuban embassies

22874

Narcotics enforcements action recently arrested and con-

victed in

New York city on charge close friend of Max

Lesnick

Orlando Bosch financed DR op which resulted in explosion

at Hotel Oasis, Avrainville, Fran

?

Cuban exile, one of Alpha 66 founders, arrested 72473

by DEA ib charges relating to cocaine possession.

Alleged financed terrorist op to be acrried out in paris,

France, which resulted

in 8273 explosion in Avrainville, FR

Antonio Veciana Blanch

. 11

11674

3173-1-2

92773

21473

21869

92765

SNFE-Alpha 66-

201 FILE:

- Dir. 8531-1-8 31578 78 1219-04-2

DPOB: 1828-1-0, Cuba Empl. 57-61 in Havana as CPA mgr of Banco

Finaciero.

member of People's Revolutionary Movement 60-61, one of

fourders of Alpha 66, anti-Castro Cuban exile organization.

Went into

voluntay exile Dec 61 arr at Key West via small boat from Cuba.

Contacted CIA on three occasions for assistance in plots against Fidel

Castro (Dec. 60, July 62, Apr 66):

Officers listened to Veciana,

expressed no interest, offered no encouragement, and

never. recontacted

him on this matter. There has been no agency relationship with vectana.

A POA, granted in Jan.

on this matter 62, expired No

62, expired Nov 62, and was never used operationally

by RTACTION

Veciana with A.I.D. in La Paz from 68-72. (veciana

was registered in ISR by the US army in Nov 62 and he was terminated

without prejudice in Jul 66. Veciana was arrested in Miami 72473

for conspriacy to smuggle cocaine into the US:

Jack Anderson columns in 77 indicate Veciana claims contact with

Ci A man, Morrs Bishop.

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
VECIANA, page 2

SEORL H

1535-11-11

-- DOC X-tract 72777 075-2019-00-8

Letter from Orlando Bosch dated May 1977 instructs

coordinated revolutionary Organization (CORU) to

initiate large-scale terrorist action in Venezuela. Plans

call for assassination of orlando Garcia (201-7860-00-6) and

Ricardo Morales.. Veciana to be invölved in this action.

-- Doc X-tract: 075-008-019 CARA-33792 72777

Responsible for 100 lbs explosives to be used by CORU.

Involved in international terrorist activities against

Cuban-Venezuelan targets in VEnezuela

_- 43077 1466-31-60-77

Response to FBI statements made by Felix Zabala Mas in FBI's

interview of Mas, Veciana never contractual employee;

agency officer in contact with Veciana never used alias

of Morris Bishop, Blair, or Kail.

-- 12177 LACOG021-77

RE: Jack Anderson column -- Agency identifies Mr. X as Veciana.

Indicates V eciana was first contacted by agency personnel in

Dec 1960 when he asked COS in Havana, James A. Noel, to help

in the assassination plot against Castro. Noel did not encourage

him 2361-1-1 the Miami Herald published an account of the

unsuccessful attempt by Veciana, who reportredly arranged to

assassinate Castro and Cuban Pres. Dorticos on 10561 in Havana,

but the bazooka he was using failed to fire.

POA granted Jan 62; expired Nov 62, for use in para-military

affairs. 72362 Veciana interviewed by Harry Real in New York

DCD office.

Asked Real to arrange meeting with senior CIA

officer to discuss plan to assassinate Castro and to request

CIA assistance. NO indication

this request was ever acted upon

by CIA.

Registered in ISR in Nov 62 and terminated without prejudice

in July 1966.

April 1966, John R. Lucy, using alias John Livingston, met

Veciana in

NYC.

Meeting

arranged by retired naval officer

James Cogswell, who had informed chief WH division, that he

had information of value concerning Cuba. After Lucy. introduction

to Veciana, Veciana launched into discussion of assassination

of Castro. Lucy said he was in no position to encourage Veciana.

Veciana then mentioned his roommate in PR, Felix Zabala, who

had excellent contacts in Cuba. Using this onfo to get agency

support; requested 50,000. Lucy said he would look

into Zabala

matter, and arrange to have Zabala contacted in PR.

12077 Anderson columns re Mr. X

Far?

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
.

VECIANA,
SEGALI

1506-11-11

-- 6774 0902-5-6 1450-1-0Z

mployed with A.I.D., La Paz, Bolivia, ca. 468 to 63012.

POA 62- for use with MRP.

- 1474 OGG 74-0019

RE: US V. Antonio Veciana and Ariel Pomeres.

CIA had no prior knowledge or acquiescence in unlawful

importing of cocaine or other narcotics.

--

72673 7091-4-3 1940-2-6Z

CPA repsently working for Distribuidora Pacifico, S.A., CAracas,

"Venezuela (273)

- 4672 IN 9398-5-7

Indicates Veciana's job at AID was bank credit officer to

Central Bank Of Bolivia.

Inolved in reorganization of bank.

Considered expert on local banking.

-- 4572 IN 8428-5-7

Indicates In March 72 Veciana staying in Caracas raising

money for assassinatin plot against Castro.

-- 91868 Memo

Indicates Veciana employed as Director of Puerto Rico Promotions

and Entertainment, Inc. PR.

-- 92368 IN 97745

Indicates Veciana told

story re Ruiz to Henry Taylor in Miami

(no date given) and in Madrid in 1968.

-- 91368 COBR-00958 201-4598-8-3

Indicates Cogswell involved in fund-raising plot for the Prince-

Pelaez Castro assass: plot.

-- 8268 IN 63507

Madrid

Indicates Veciana told Cuban affairs office8168 that Orestes

Guillermo RUIZ Perez who is married to Veciana's cousin. is dis-

satisfied with Castro regime and could be susceptible now.

V. Leaving US 8368 for Bolivia to serve with AID. Told to

give details to Emb La Paz.

Gave essentially sane info 1964.

When followed up by report

v. father and wife, Veciana complained.

At this time it

was ascertained that none of the Veciana family were in touch

with Ruiz wife:

. Also Vecina aware Ruiz stationed Madrid but

apparently unaware Ruiz position as ranking diplomat there.

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
VECIANA, page 4

SECRET

- INS 41267 Bio info

1537-11-1

Alien reg # A 12 490 987

SS 4261-74-9877

Wife: Muino Rodriguez Sira

DPOB: 10435, Havana

DOM: 51553, Havana

Father: Veciana Antonio POB: Spain; resides Miami

Mother: Blanch Ana

Address; 62-64

2902 NW 11 St, Miami.

-- 92766 LX-03195 201-2841-8-0

Cited in interview with Felix Zabala Mas

-- 82966 UFG-08514 100-009-014

Member of Cuban Center for Political Studies in PR

-- 53166 LX-3102

James Cogswell, aka Jack Cogswell - meetings 419-2066.

Chief WH div revd info via personal contacts that James

Cogswell, nephew of retire employee Mrs. Francis Gogswell,

had info re Cuba. Byron Waidley, (author of memo) called

Mrs. Cogswell in wash, DC, obtained tel no. of nephew in NYC

and called nephew.

Met with him at Racquet Tennis Club

41966.

Cogswell accompanied by Veciana, an acquaintance of Cogswell

for last several years. Veciana launched into discussion

of Castro assass. plot. Waidley did not encourage him, but

asked forinfo to convey to govt.

Veciana

replied with

inof re Feliz Zabala, who had vsited Cuba in 1965 in connections

with Camarioca refugee departures. Has an identical twin

brother residing in Cuba

and a sister married to CP

pfficial Luis Mas Martin. She is employed as secretary by

Ramiro Valdez, Cuban minister of Interiour.

Zabala rovd 3-day pass in havana thru contacts of sister and

brother-in-law.

Veciana attempting to use story for agency help in own plans.

Waidley told Veciana he would look into Zabala matter; told

Cogswell he would meet him the next day.

42066 met with Cogswell at his hotel room. Discussed

Cuban refugees with whom Cogswell remain in contact; dis-

cussions with Frank O'Brien. (Waidley had spoken to O'Brien

earlier that day - 420)

Noted Cogswell's willingness to drink in the morning,

described him as amiable,

well-educated man from Kittery Point,

Maine, member of illustrious Naval family.

Served as

Naval officer in WWII on destroyer named after his uncle.

and grandfather.

His contacts not assessed as not much assistanc

to agency.

FBI had already interviewed Zabala prior to Cogswell-Waidley

meeting. Agency person will also debrief him in near future.

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
Sy

VECIANA, page 5

1538-41-11

-- UFG-7683

2865-1-0

Source: AMRAZZ-1 thru AMBLINK-1, 1965-1-0

Executive meeting of SFNE-MRP-Alpha 66 held 1365-1-0,

attended by Veciana. Purpose to try to persuade Veciana

to join the alliance again. Efforts to no avail.

Veciana employed in PR in Christmas card bsuiness, said he

had collaborated with SNFE becasue of his confidence in

Menoyo, but had no confidence in present leaders.

Armando Fleites Diaz repdtly told Veciana he had prepared

plans for attack on Cuba,

but forced to suspend them becasue

of Castro;s open door policy.

Veciana reptd resigned from alliance 6165.

Menoyo captured and imprisoned in Cuba 165.

-- UFGA 8456-2-1

4165 Bio data report

Veciana graduate of Habana School of Business Administration.

Employed as CPA for Banco Financiero, loan company owned by

Julio Lobo.; little knowledge English. Employed at

Cuban national Bank 1956-57.

Described as dark, of medium height, very thin, intense, active,

nervous, speaks rapidly. Associated with action groups, but

specialist in fund-raising and organization for alpha 66, really

financila section for SFNE. Ordered to be restricted to Dade Cty

in 1963 for being connected with hit-and-run activities.

Claims liberal philosphy but biographer doubts whether he

has any political philosphy at all.

-- UFG-7174 5765

Veciana talked into temporarily withdrawing resignation from

alliance by Aurelio Nazario Sargent, member of SFNE.

Nazario

said resignation now would have disastrous consequences to alli-

ance. Will stay on in name only; resign when announcement won't

hurt alliance.

-- UFG-06235

2064-1-1

Indicates Veciana has not been to successful in raising funds

at his has in Puerto Rico.

UFG-06007

UFG-04958

10964

Assigned 1, 300 to be sent to Menoyo

41464

Final exec Cite meeting of SFNE before launching Plan Omega

Due for April 10.

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
SEGRE

VECIANA, page 6

1509-11-11

-- UFG-03122 62763

Plans for infiltration of team into Cuba - Details not given.

-- 3062-1-1 Agency to Army ISR

Re; Info re Veciana disseminated to army.

- C-96796 Index acrd re Veciana

Indicates POA requested by Carl Hicks 2961-1-2

NOTE: "Now being used by Army"

-- 1662-1-1

OUT 99193

Indicates rift in Alpha 66 - Only Jeronimo Estevez, Salomon

Bender, Fernando Sanchez, and Israel Gonzalez still allied with

Veciana.

Roberto Castellon said rest of Alpha 66 members planning

formation of new org. under name Comanods 66 to raise funds

for action groups like DRE

-- 1262-1-1

OUT 97521

RE: Deception of Veciana, who secretly has been associated with

SFNE, handling fund disbursements and always spoke of financing

other group, but members thought other group was part of Alpha 66.

Truth revealed Oct 62 when Armando Fleites and Veciana offered

services to

Miro Cardona. Veciana forced to resign. Records

show he diverted 27,000 to SFNE out of 37,000 total. All

Alpha 66 equipment was lost on 1023-2462 attempted raid

of sugar barges off Cayo Santa Maria.

-- 11662 to FBI from CIA

RE: plans of Alpha 66 - before rift known.

Indicates leader in NY is Alberto GUTIAREZ de la Solana,

employed at Bohemia.

In PR, leader is Jeronimo Esteve;

other officers Dr. Raul Janes, J.J. Murabotto, Roebrto Castellon,

members Ricardo Gonzalez Porta, Pedro Muina, Father Mighuel

Hernandez.

Other officers in NY- Ramon Perez Daple, Antonio VEcdva (sic),

vice treasurer..

91162

OUT 75022

RE: Plans of Alpha 66 for opertions ca. this date, using

5 men and boat

9862

OUT74604

RE: plans of Alpha 66 for raid on Havana 98 or 962

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
SECRET

VECIANA, page 7

-- 9762 OUT 74509

1590-11-11

RE: Plans for raid on Cuba by Alpha 66. Prob. will use aircraft.

_- 9862 OUT 74313

Plans for Alpha 66 raid now scheduled prior to 9962. 'If success-

ful, Julio LObo ready to commit 250,000 to assist future operations.

-- 9662 OUT 73652

Plans for raid known only to A-66 members in Miami. Veciana

sent message with plans to safe deposit box in PR to be opened

successful completion of raid.

72662 00 A (S) 2106-32-3 WH 765

NYContact office - interviewed Veciana on occasion of his

Also interviewed 72362 by Harry Real,

after Lobo allerted office to fact that Veciana would be

in NYC..

RE: organization of Alpha 66. Named such becaue

sanitation of A, in 6.

Alpha firstletter in alphabet and org. fist of its kind,

and 66 represented number of members in group.

Objective - war on Cuba, assassination of Castro, 3 of 66

members in Cuba. Has made s everal attempts to enlist agency

aid in Miami.

Seeking starter: 1000.00 US.

10,000 pesos

48 hand grenades

2 rifles w telescopic sights

silencers

300 lbs of C3 or C-4 explosives

wdetonators

Would like conversation with agency person sufficiently high-

placed for answer of interest or not by agency. Will be in NY!

until 72762 co Lobo. Then in Chicago, then back to Miami.

-- 71162 OUT 53489

Veciana

went ot COS Havana 1260 with info re plot. Requesting

rifles w grenade adapters, eight grenades. Carefully planned

attempt for more than a year, renting apartment w view of

Presidential Palace.

Lobo asked of opinion of Veciana, which

was favorable.

7762

IN 24761

Veciana given money by SKEWER-1, who said in telephone

conversation that this not AMBANG activity but had

AMBANG -

blessing.

CRE

7762 : IN 24738

SKEWER-1 gave Veciana 500.

Claims

group not political

A-66 meeting 7262 in PR

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
VECIANA, page

8

SEGRE I

1541-11-11

- 13162 OUT 96068

POA granted AMSHALE-1, subject ref. 201-2966-3-1

-- 22762

PRQ part 1

Alias

- "Victor" used in Havana city underground

5'11", 170 lbs

1958 travelled to Mexico to stud'

Knights of Columbus

-- Memo for record of meeting with Julio Lobo 1960-1-2

In discussion, Lobo brought up Veciana, restating that he is

reliable.

Heard that veciana systematically destroying bank's

records and machine bookkeeping equipment.

-- 12960 IN 14488

Veciana called on OLIEN, Havana COS, 12760 with

Felix Fernandez Yarzabal. Said he belongs to AMBANG org.

Told Olien of plot to kill latro and associates.. Needs visas

for families of 4 men involved in plot.

-- 1360-1-2 OUT 52604

State

Veciana trusted by Lobo, altho suspected of being Cuban G-2

Cbl indicates Havana should not in any way encourage radical

schemes of this kind, especially when presented in this cold manner

Olien spke with ODACID Pol officer, who had spoken with Veciana.

Veciana had made similar "wild-eyed" proposals to him.

-- HKHA 6958

1160-1-0

Veciana, Pres of Assoc. of Public Accountants, said group

threw support behind Manolo Ray organization.

-- Memo for the record by Chris Hopkins 577 re Review of Veciana

file

DBA 18681 8862

Veciana allegedly went into voluntary exile ca. Dec 6l

arr.

Key West in small boat from Cuba. On 7562 left PR for

Chicago to raise funds. Had been contäcting Cuban exiles

in P.R., Fla, Chicago, and poss. NYC to collect 64,000

cash. to

carry out plans. Money placed in Banco de Ponce,

Santurce, PR.

FBI informant said Veciana indicated names of follwoing 3

individuals then in Cuba who were expected to assist Alpa 66

Vicente Noble

Guillermo Ruiz

Bernardo Paradela

Informant said he knew all 3 because they had been connected

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
VECIANA, Pgb 9

nitti ye

in 1956 with SIM (Military Intelligence Service) in the

D.R., Veciana said Pardela was then in jail in Cuba, but

Noble and Ruiz were on the loose in Cuba and were cold-

blooded killers.

DBA. 2262-1-0

Veciana trying to obtain 2 boats from unk Americans in

Texas.

Memo to FBI from CIA 11662

Reptd that members Ramon Perez Daple, asst to Dr. Jose

Luis Gonzalez - both are Castro Cuban infiltrators.

DBA

28528

12162

Large sums of money for Alpha 66 contributed by Lobo.

Hopkins memo also indictes:

Ruiz lived in the US illegally in 1957

was assigned to Cuban Embassy, Mexico City in Sep 63 as

dplomat.

DGI activity was to penetrate counter-revolutionary

organizations. Flew from Mexico City to Havna on 2263-1-1.

Is married to Veciana's cousin

Reported by Veciana to support Alph 66 activities.

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

##
ANTONIO VECIANA BLANCH

DCD MATERIALS

1543-11-21

- 00 A (S) 5956-32-3

9762

RE: Alpha 66

Need

assistance, but will go ahead with plans whether they

receive assistance from US govt or not.

Go-Between named

Robert A. Pratchett. Have collected about 30,000. (Info also

in memo to FBI 11662)

LOOSE DOCUMENTS:

LAPA 22452 IN 5443-0-0 81773

Veciana arrested 72463 for conspiracy to smuggle cocaine

into US.

Veciana was contract employee of USAID from 1970

to July 1972 at La Paz.

Among names appearing in Veciana

address

book is that of Michael Clayton, Calle 5, Obrajes, Tel #

82817

C-96796

CIOA:

-- POA cancellation

11562 ATTN: Cal Hicks

--

Request for approval 2961-1-2

AMSHALE- 1 crypt

case officer: Cal Hicks, Greg Vitale signing.

SECRE!

NW 66000 Docld:3118-32-27
---

