# DOCID-6869-32-40

##
104-10167-10233

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55937 Date: 10-28-2021

181 1

DDO??-10011

8..1,008:267.7

11 NOY 1977

AMORANDU:! FOR: SAADIE

FRC.:1:

Raymond A. karsen

Chief. Latin Arerica Division

SURJFCT:

REFERENCE:

SLAIORI305-1 Report Mentioning Culan

Minister-Counscllor Statement on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

1.ACO235-77 Nated 30 September 1977

1.

The referent menorandum reported infornation fren

a ZRi AHON intelligence

refert of a statement made

Minister-Counselor (MC) of the Cuban Embassy in pinaston."

Janaica

312

24 September 1977, that "Cuban exiles such as

DIAZ Lah

(fnul (sic) and others had been involved in the

assassination of President John F. Kennedy."

tie belicre

that

this

could refer either to I'edro DIA? Lanz, or his

brother Marcos DIAZ Lana, formerly

Chief and Deputy, Chief,

respectiveli, of the Cuban Revolutionary hir Force.

entered the U.S. from Cuba as exiles in mid-josy.

that time the DIAZ Lanz brothers reportedly hair heen

closely associated with,

and involved in numernis

activities

with, Frank STURGIS (aka FIORIN!! of latergair love.

The

Agency assisted in the exacuation of Marcos, and fedro

entered the U.S. on his oin.

Although hoth

were debriefed

bj the Agenc!, there is no indication that they were ever

considered Agency assets.

16-5

2. [Kingston Station queried source for further infor-

nat ion

as promised

in paragraph 1 of the

reference.

The

source said

that the MC referred to the Kennedy assassina-

tion during a pep talk to party members to maintain good

security.

mation

Had arrived" implicating DAE Lam (inm) (sic),

that the MC said that "recent infor-

former air force officer, in the jennedy assassination

but did not mention an)

other Curan exiles by nine or give

any further

deinils.

lthough the MC did not identify thi

source of his information,

the Kingston Station source bad 16-

the inpression that the

information might have heen

included

in a cable fron the Cuban Ministry of Foreign Nifairs.

The

source is unable to elicit further information

fron the MC

without jeopardizing his security.

5150M

Ra T:-d A. Bartea

CC:

IG Staff

MAFMING NOTICI

Raymond A. Marten

201-9716-2-5

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduca

415R.

NW 65987 Docld:6869-32-40
---

##
104-10167-10233

" Id: 8-1: 1

SUBJECT:

02

SYIORIEON-1 Report Mentioning Cuban

Minister-Counsellor

Statement on the

Assassination of President Kennedy

DDOLACOC. Hopkins:gm (10 Morember 1977) (x1491)

Distribution:

Orig

1

4

Addressee

IG Staff

CLAD

LACO

(Originator)

(LACOMenio Chrono)

(201-9120-2-5)

(201-9710-2-5)

BASED ON:

DIRECTOR 3951-1-0,

September

1977

KINGST 05) 22971 (15 1984-1-2), 1 October 1977

21-5

R

NWV 65987 Docld:6869-32-40
ZBR

---

