# DOCID-4523-32-32

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2015-6-8

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER : 124-90029-10015

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-5298-4-0-2

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

SL

TO : HQ

TITLE:

66000 Diate: 11-03-2021

DATE: 1954-01-20

PAGES:

1

SUBJECTS :

THOMAS PEASNER

THOMAS R. PEASNER

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 3

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

1998-08-20

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF USA

COMMENTS :

MEMO;

v9.1

AW 66000 Docld:4523-32-32
---

##
STANDARD FORM NO. 64

Office Memoravidum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO

: DIRECTOR, EBI

goings,

ST.

SUBJECT:

FNU PEASNE

RECAP - R,

SM - C

DATE: 1-20-54

LOUIS (100-13727)

Leaner

PART II,

C A0015"

Re SAC Letter No. 53-38 dated 8-25-53.

- ча

., 4-4

Department of Army Counter Intelligence Division, Chicago, Illinois,

furnished to the St. Louis Division an Intelligence Surmary concerning the

interview of Sst, [ROBERT EXHOOKS, RA 4305-17-36, Former Wa S. prisoner of the

Chinese Communist and North Korean forces.

In this intervier Brooks stated special privileces were granted to

the U. S. prisoners of war who favored Communism and these POWs were commonly

referred to by the other POWs as "progressives".

subject's activities:

The following is a summary of information furnished by [BROok S?doncerning

PEASNER was one of the prisoners who was very active in attempting

to influence the other prisoners.

Although! BROOKSI did not specifically state

what type of influence he meant, he indicated that it was influence along

the progressive lines.

PEASNER was selected by the Chinese for his pro-Communist leanings

to be on the Peace Committee at Camp No. 1.

He was "also selected by the Chinese

as a leader and speaker at this camp. The subject was one of the prisoners who

went for walks with camp officials and who collaborated with them.

'heré is no record of the subject in the indices of the St. Louis office.

TAD: naf

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED

REGISTERED MAIL

Hame's i Nto REm AINS

be ate a paise 07-11298-2

INCLASS PER THEIR

4814-40-8

LET DID

4298 TRUE - Te

SLD KR SE

48

8-4-98

INDEXED - 76

88:124

JAN 25

1954

34

(JFK)

mi2 DA

6

AW 66000 Docld:4523-32-32
---

