# DOCID-5775-32-26

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

1320-1-0

AGENCY:

RECORD NUMBER :

HSCA

180-10114-10401

RECORD SERIES:

NUMBERED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

5089-0-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

SHIELDS, CLEOLA

TO :

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE: 1977-11-12

PAGES:

3

SUBJECTS :

EYEWITNESS, SHIELDS, CLEOLA

DOCUMENT TYPE: SUMMARY

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: Open in Full

CURRENT STATUS : Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1993-08-18

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

One copy of interview summary included. Box 293.

NW 66000: Docld:5775-32-26
---

##
5089-0-1

INVESTIGATION INTERVIEW SCHEDULE

1.

Identifying Information:

Name CLEs LA Shielss

Adaress 3311 Pointea Ars

citystate Dallas Tex As

Date _-12:12

Pla Ce RESi DENCE

РілЕ: 630-0387

Date of Birth 7-22-39

social security 463:- 62- 0R-

Spouse

Children

2. Physical Description:

Height 5- 62

weight 135

Ethnic Group BLAc K

Color Eyes Ban Hair BIK

Special Characteristics

3.

4 .

Personal History:

Present Employment:

Address

Telephone

Criminal Record

1. Arrests_

WONE

2. Convictions

HABENSLACK

LEMAIN - ST.

DIVi So N

Additional Personal Information:

a. Relative(s): Name

DELe Rus Davis-

Address 331 Por NTERST

DALEL TEXAS

b. Area freguented buh Dallar,

c. Remarks:

Investigator

Date

Form #4-B

NW 66000 Docld:5775-32-26
---

##
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME Cle Ola Shields

Address

3317 Pointer Ave:

Dallas, Texas

Date 11-12-77

Place Residence

Phone: 214-630-0387

Time 11:30 A.M.

Interview:

On Nov. 22, 1963 Mrs. Shields was employed by Ed wells

fashions, which was located at 501 Elm St. 5th floor (corner

of Elm and Houstons Sts.) At approx. 12 noon Mrs. Shields

and several co workers came down stairs for lunch and to watch

the Presidential motorcade. Prior to the arrival of the motor-

cade Mrs. Shields stated that she saw an auto driving around

the Plaza with writing on the body, advertising "Honest Joe's

Pawn Shop".

The auto left before the arrival.of the motorcade

When the motorcade arrived, the President was waving and had

just passed when

she heard what sounded like a fire cracker

coming from the direction of the railroad crossing, the

President's hand went up towards his head and the car made

a little pause and then took off. We all ran to the rail-

road tressell and looked in the boxcars. There was a lot

of people looking in the boxcars, also police were there.

We returned to work and were told to go home.

Interviewer

(Signature)

Clarence Day, Harold Leap

Date Transcribed Nov:

28, 1977

bybas

(Ini

NW 66000_Docld:5775-32-26_Page 3

---

##
SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS

NAME

Ch Eo LA Sh IELAs

Address 3312 Poi NTee Ave

DateI-1222 Time Ll:30 AM

Pla Ce LEVOENCE - Pa214-630-0387

Mallos TEXa S.

interyter. on hw-2s, 198s Mo Shilo who englayed at ly

Ed wille Josherns, which was bented at 501 on th

ne li watt du pro. minticade, prior si di arisa

" the matercade so Thield stated Jut sle saw

side the admen de the Plea he witing

ying tonest foe's laws h

We all ran to the the wail road teaseld and lashul in the

lopcaro The wire a lat pople lothing in le

bijen, ales pole quer chia- We returne D wink se

laterviever A Mikarl, Cheese bey, tools temp.

(Signature)

(Typed)

Date Transcribed

NW 66000-Do Gld 5770-32-26
---

