# DOCID-8168-32-34

##
104-10068-10010

20 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: SADOO

FROM:

M. L. Latta

Plans and Review Group

Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT:

House Select Committee on

Assassinations (HCSA) Request

REFERENCES:

A

Memo for SADO0 fr OLC (OLC 77-56854),

ata 28 Dec 77, Same Subj

B. Letter for OLC fr Chief CounselDirector

of HCSA, atd 22 Dec 77

1. This memorandum is in response to the request

in paragraph 4 of Reference A.

CCS files contain

information on five of the II individuals identified

in Reference B as follows:

Alias Dan Carswell (True Name David L.

Christ) -- Approximately 30 documents, virtually

all of which concem the establishment, maintenance

and use of cover for Subject during his Agency

career as a Staff Employee from 1956-70.

b. Louis Posada -- CCS maintains a covert tax

file on Subject containing 58 documents covering

his employment as an Independent Contractor from

1968-75.

Information in this file may be released

only in accordance with the provisions of Section

6103 of the Internal Revenue Code.

In the opinion

of CCS, the time frame of these documents would make

them irrelevant to the investigation being conducted

by the HCSA Staff.

Cesario Diosdado -- Approximately 25 documents

on Subject, a Bureau of Customs official who assisted

CIA fr Om 1961-68 on a reimbursable basis. Virtually

all of the documents concem arrangements made between

CIA and Customs for the use of Subject.

The Commissioner

of Customs should be contacted prior to release of

information in this file.

Davia Attlee Phillips -- 125-150 documents,

virtually all of which concem the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his

Agency career as a Staff Employee from 1953-75.

Said

SOURCES

AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET.

60OG

E2 IMPDET CL BY 4925-0-0

NW 65924

Docld:8168-32-34
---

##
104-10068-10010

SEGRET

Lucien Conein -- 100-125 documents,'

virtually all of which concem the establishment,

maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his

career with the Agency as a military detailee and

Career Agent from 1954-68.

2. CCS files on the individuals listed in paragraphs

la, c, d and e above contain forms, memoranda and personal

data concerning administration of cover exclusively.

the opinion of CCS, identification of specific documents

that could be of interest to the HCSA cannot be made

until such time as the HSCA Staff narrows the focus of its

inquiry.

3. There is no information in CCS files on the other

items listed in Reference

B.

Latta

- 2-

SECILI

NW 65924

Docld:8168-32-34
---

