# DOCID-1620-32-27

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

3201-3-2

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER:

180-10142-10316

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER:

24-03-12

'Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

TO :

CIA

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

issassination Records Collection Act of

1992(44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE:

1978-03-07

PAGES:

5

SUBJECTS:

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA, OPERATIONS

BARTONE, DOMINICK E., 201 FILE

DOCUMENT TYPE: NOTES

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW:

1995-08-08

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS :

Box 14

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:1620-32-27
---

##
SECRET Sine

submitted

3128

Dominick E Bartone

3420 n

Uol 1- Dec 359 - Sept 1960

aka Nick Barton

listed as!" all others"

-n 201 File Request Form

a 201 File Request -

30 Dec 1959

DOB.8-8-13

smuggler

0075-11-11

comments " In as muchas he carpies.

gun at all times. he is considered armed and dangerous.

Arrested by U.S. (ustoms agents, miami, for attemptec

bribery and departure of

munitons... laden plan e

DR

destined for:..Dum: Rep.

PACY

4714

2- Cable.

PACH 4714- Aug 25, 1959-: From Parama City to

branch

Director

manager of panamacity bank informed cos

on Aug 2y that a: Dominic Bertone, othe is in Nat Bank

juilding.miami.sent.alawyeralargeom.coshin

satchel to open checking account in panama set. city ok.

manager delayed accepting accit: He indicated bellet fund

connectech. with william morgan, u.s. citzen engaged !n

revolutonary actiuites. Cuba.... Request HQs interest.

O1t90183 Cable tu FBI trom Dir CIA Aug Auga5, 1959

subji.. Financial transactions. of Dominick Barture

on 28 Aug 199- a farily reliable: source reported that

0245-0-0fe person wnom Bi sent to Panamia to open... the account

was ARaf Andrew PSalidas - law partner of Gregory

Paniles,

Psalidas was

of whieh 1 15,000 Wi SECRET a total of 10,000

81000 bills, with the

NW 66000 Docld:1620-32-27
---

##
SECRET.

Bartone (continüed.)

only. authorized. signatures on checks to be that of Dominic

Bartore, and... local legal rep was the trum Arias,.

Fabrega:, and Fabresa

Dir 41966:4- Cable Auga?, 1959

- TO Panama From Dir

source: who attended meeting morgan cuban

counterrevolutonaries reports meeting. held rome Dominic

E Bartone, 4236 Chase Ave, miami Bkl0073-1-1

- same source reported morgan recerved 14,000 trum.

counterrevolutionaries.

...for use against castro. Public accounts

morgan operation. indicate he received uniy 75,000

HQS interested... determine amount and whether morgan

holding out on. castro, or if money to de used

as secret tund by castro to finance other revolutionary

actions or personal use

2457-00-0

0344-04-9

5: Cable. Aug 22, 1959- TO FBI From CIA

subj... "Financial Transactiona. of Dominick Bartone."

source, reported that on 10 Aug 1959 william morgan

in miami..

met with cubans oppored to castro-

meeting..neld.at

Bar tone's diume.

present, morgans Lemus (FNu)

Ramon see mestre, Antonio: mendora:

morgan given 140,000 in cash by Mestre Mendora.

in march 1959, it was reoorted that Bar tone was trying

to sell some Grobemaster (6-74) aircraft to the Cuban

Revolutenary Air Force.

had, betrienched

morgan.)

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:1620-32-27 Page 3.

---

##
-3 - SECRET

bysource

It is believed"

that the funds that the fon Bartonie's

lawyer took to panama. are cunnected morgar.

HDa commont- morgan publicly declared in Havana

that he had received... 75,000. from the counter-

revolutionaries for. use against Castro... the hunds sent to

Panama City. may be the difterence between. the.

amount. declared by morgan and what heactually

recerved."

20 Fug 195-9

-Possible Cuban Cunterteu

cross.ret.card-..regarding..associahon.with.morgan

and pot to kill castro!?

201-1145-2-5- morgan's.. 20r

D1r-00456

2458-00-0

1100-1-1T?

Document Transfer 8. Cross Reference furm.

D6F 35804. -

-(nut actual.

documont)

24:0c 59.

Bartone: said case against him in miami was being

tixed.

was in possessiun.... at a checks for 50,000

each drawn. on..

foreign bank, issued to. him by a

Batista group in compensation...

tor. airplanes- sudgsaid

hestll had 10 planes to dispose of.... subs repurtedto

be connected: with Teamster: Union, osficiais.. in Cleu. Ohio

re:cross-ref. s may 1960. Joseph Charies Liquori arrestecl

Bartone: for shipping weapons to Dom. Rep..

SECRET

NW 66000 Docld:1620-32-27
---

##
SECRETA

VOI II

oct 60. June 6i

- Bartone-. 2y Nuu 1960--

OTR a33

Engaged in revolutionary acturtes in behalt. of Dum Pep.

a Hempted to illegally export une C-74 aircratt, ammunitioni,

etc. Arrested.

wasinvolved:max Garcia, tampa, Fla., in

attempted exportation of one B-a5 type aircraft large

quanhtyaf AT-6 - arcraft. parts....

Alsu rept. invoived.

invasion us cuba frum Dom. Ros: prearranged by trujillo.

July 61-sept 65.

1- cross ref-

14 may 1963- Bartung associzte of Herbert

J. morrisun

achushes,

reportedly inuolved in. Haitan Rewiutunery

2459-00-0

0073-11-11

a-ss requested into on Bartone on 8 sept 1965.

On y sept 1954- source indicated. 860,000 haddeen

withdrawn from acc't by psaldad- "possibly to de

ciepositect in the French Banco Fiduciario in Panamality.

[reters to treasury Dept Bureau u Customs, Division of

Investigatin and Enforcement menu: # 23-944 datec

15 NOU. 1460.

SECRET

NW 66000. Docld:1620-32-27
---

##
SEGRET

summary submited

Artime, Bueza manue!

- Personnelfile

written

3728

memo

of oral commitment

Tor chiet , special Affarrsstaff

Eno- contract Approung officer

From: Chief of station IMw AUE

signed by Frederick 5. Inghurst -Field contracting officer.

nired -oral contract-fur use under TYPIC-effectivedate -

Febraary 1963- to continue indefinitely.

400 month

to be charged against station overnead-

2450-00-0

0070-11-11

SECRET

NW 66000. Docld:1620-32-27
---

