# DOCID-8598-32-37

##
104-10216-10103

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

65990 Date: 10.29-7021

-t-o

OKIG :

UNIT

R. Pa TTi SLUS

i H2IJCARIEEZAN

EXI

: 2056

DATE: 13 AUGUST 1959

1O " RAPARA

FROM : DIRECTOR

CONF :

WH 5

SO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-j-H-E-T

t.

580

ROLLING

5

Au G 13

22

20-59

REC'D Ch ULE SECT.

INTIALS

DEFERRID

FRIORITY

SOUTINE

OPERATIONAL

IMMEDIATE

NTIALS

...1

2010-13-28

aur 85900

TO

C116, FI, F1REM 3, SC 2

HAVA, SACO

INO

stut

CITE DIR

1. TY ILS COLIN 13 AUGUST TREM PRAPSON PRITED BETRACES OF WHAT IIS

CLAIMED TO PE A RUPAR.: RZPORT "SHOVING FIDEL CASTRO'S LINKS WITH COZUNISH".

PIES SHOES

2. PUNY CONSOLE SUES 'ES AS DEA TOGAN EO PASSED IT IE

JUNE TOÏERVING DAVIDSON, A REGISTEA3D AGENT OF NICAFAGUAN COVI STATIONED IN

WASHINGTON. DAVIDSON DI JURA GAVE COPIES TO ODENVY, JERRZ ARITIN AND

CULLEROKANG. HARIFD IS A FUE CORRSSPONDSITT I HASHISCIN. LANG IS

KICARAGUAII CONSUL GATERAL IN NEM YORK CITY. DAVISON TOLD ODSIVI ON 16 JUIS

HE SURMISED HOGAN FAD ONE IN MIS IN FRE OACIN ME MAARE PEPS IN CAR.

DAVIDSON FAD IMPRESSION HOGAL WAS FRIENDLY WITH RUBARK REPS IN CUBA BUT

DAVIDSON CLAIMED HAVE HO SPECIFIC INOWEDGE THIS REGARD.

3. IN AISSER TO A 2i L JULY KRITTEN QUERI FROM (NEYS WHETHER HOCAN

- e

REPORI CORRESPOJOS IN PART OR IN 50LS WITH ART REM:IS ISSUED BY EUBARE,

12a

BOS IS REPLIING IN NEGATINS

"Catinenie

cout 50

B.

CRED OF HESSAGE LE I

at 4305

COOSDINATING OFFICIES

GOl EZ. 6C:"

RELEASINS

OFFICER

S-E-I-R-B-I

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING L.FFICE IS PROHIBITED.

8. H. D'HLOREN, CSIII

AUTHINTICATING

OFf1318

Cost Ne

NW 65990 Docld:8598-32-37
---

