# DOCID-3836-32-37

##
Date: 0105-0-3

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-9100-10-3034

RECORD SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : OFF. OF SEC WORK FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : GAMBINO. DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

TO

: THE REVIEW STAFF VIA DDA

TITLE : MEMO:SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE REQUEST (ASSASSINATION OF

PRESIDENT KENNEDY) GILBERTO (DIAZ)

LOPEZ

DATE :

PAGES

1976-02-12

2

SUBJECTS: DIAZ LOPEZ, G.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

RESTRICTIONS : 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1699-0-6

COMMENTS : JFK-WF04: F2 : 1999:06.16.10:49:00:3120-6-5

Released under the John F. Kennedy Assassination

Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 USC 2107 Note).

Canet NW 65990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10309-10034

NW 65990 Docld:3836-32-37
---

##
SECRET

REFERENDE COPY

RETURN TO OS REGISTRY

12 FEB 1976

NENORANDIM FOR: The Review Staff

VIA

SUBJECT

Deputy Director for Adninistration

Senate Select Committee Request

(Assassination of President Kennedy)

contains three requests for information pertaining to the

Comittoe's investigation of the assassination of President

Kennedy -

2. With respect to paragraph one of referenced request,

a search of the Office of Security indices failed to disclose

any files identifiable with Gilberto Lopez (aka: Gilberte

Policarpo Lopez), bom on 26 January 1940 at Havana, Cuba.

However, the Office of Security does have a subject

file pertaining to one Gilberto (Diaz) Lopez (SP 9752 071),

bom in 1930 (date and month not shown) at Las Villas,

Cuba.

As of 1964, this individual was listed as a United States

citizen, then residing in Cuba as a rebel army doctor.*

Cited filo reflects that in July 1964, the Westem Hemisphere

DivisionDOP had requested that the Office of Security conduct

Netional Agency Checks on Gilberto (Diaz) Lopez, indicating

that he would be utilized as an "TI penetration la place.*

In August 1964, the Office of Security furnished the Westem

Hesisphere Division with the results of the National Agency

Checks, which were negative.

The file contsins no additional

infornation, and does not reflect what, it any, association

Gilberto (Diaz) Lopez had with the Agency.

E2 INPDET

CL BY 3344-0-6

OS 6: 0594A

NW 65990 Docld:3836-32-37
SECRET

---

##
d.

In view of the above, it is possible that additional

information may be avallable concerning this individual in the

files of the Directorate of Operations.

Robert b.

Gambino

Director of Security

Distribution:

Oris 4 2 - Addressce

- DDA

DSecurity

- DDPSI

- OSRegistry

- SAG

OSPSISAGJSHunt: hjd (11 Feb

76)

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:3836-32-37
---

