# DOCID-3479-32-26

##
JFK Assassination System:

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

2020-1-0

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10110-10074

RECORD SERIES: SECURITY CLASSIFIED FILES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER :

074-JFK

Document Information

ORIGINATOR:

HSCA

FROM:

TO :

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

Б6OO0 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS:

1978-05-02

3

HSCA, ADMINISTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

1997-06-13

OPENING CRITERIA:

COMMENTS:

Box 3.

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:3479-32-26
---

##
OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

1..

KENNEDY

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

DATE 5228 POME 2:15

Holmer aristant)

Telephone

II.

III.

Identifying Information:

Name

Baïba

Address

Type of Contact:

* merene

Person

Summary of Contact:

She told me that the

unilateral tap transcript

do not exist as fanci

she, Russ Holines on:

inne Saddpastise knou

asked her to previati

that statement

and the said she would

as soonas she could

check to make sure it

was covered by our reques

She said that 203 would le

here this afternoon o would

be given to Betsy Palmer.

NW 66000.Docld:2472-32-25 t Rage 2

DIH.

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

##
KENNEDY

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

OUTSIDE CONTACT REPORT

DATE 5278 TIME 2: 30

II.

III.

NW 66000 . Docld:2479-32-26 t Rage 3

Identifying Information:

Name

Barba

rai

Address

Telephone

Type of Contact:

* Telephone

Person

Summary of Contact:

She called

re: statement?

requested. the said based

on Our request she could

provide a statement to

the elbeat that we had

been burnshed everything

not acceptable because we

had testimony that there

were unilateral transcript

and we had not seen them

Hence we needed a statement

operactly

what was

provided or a statement

Recommended Follow-up (if any) :

OVER

COMMITTEE SENSITIVE

---

##
long the lines listen these

that specifically

thirt to hath the said,

that she could do that Stold

her that such a listing should

aldo note that we had

recieved only one foriet

photo base production.

NW 66000 Docid: 3475-32-26Mpage 4

---

