# DOCID-2219-32-39

##
Date: 2705-0-2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER: 104-10413-10063

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : SENIOR OPERATIONS OFFICER

TO : DEPUTY CHIEF,

TITLE : MEMO FOR: PHOTO COMPARISON

DATE : 1977-03-29

PAGES

: '2

SUBJECTS : PHOTO

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : SECRET

RESTRICTIONS :

1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 2198-0-8

COMMENTS : JFK-RH08 : F141: 1998.08.21.13:32:03:3128-7-9

Released under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection act oi

992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10413-10063

NW 65990 Docld:2219-32-39
---

##
Dide terror decame wan

MOSKALEY

AB MEMO NO. 194

29 MARCH 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Latin America Division

ATTN

FROM

SUBJECT

Chris Hopkins

: Graphics and Authentication DivisionSenior Operations Officer

: Photo Comparison

REFERENCE : DDOLA Division Memo, dated 25 March 1977

1. On 23 March, Chris Hopkins of Latin America Division handcarried

photographs to OTSGAD for identification comparison.

These photos were

examined by the undersigned and two identification experts of the Disguise

and Identification Section.

2. The results of the comparison is as follows:

A.

Facial Shape - Close similarities, although there are slight

differences which are probably due to subject's age differences.

Chin - Fair similarities-the loss of muscletone due to ageing

is most apparent here.

Hair Line - Again good similarity with the natural ravages of

time factored in.

Set and Proportion of Eyes and Eyebrows - Close similarities.

(Comparison of eye detail is not possible due to poor photo quality)

E.: Nose and Caliper Lines - Close similarities in the nose but

the younger man has no sign of the distinctive caliper lines which extend

nose. to either side of the mouth on the known Soviet.

This could

be explained by loss of muscletone andor differences in lighting.

F. Mouth - The shape, proportion and expression of the mouth and

the whole area from the tip of

the nose to the tip of the

chin is perhaps

the most distinctive characteristic of both subjects. Here the similarities

are very close.

SECRET

NW 65990 Docld:2219-32-39
---

##
SUBJECT: Photo Comprison

PAGE - 2-

The proportions of the head,

check bones and the body style of

the younger man tend to indicate he is of slavic origin.

The results of this type comparison are rarely absolute and are

usually limited by poor photo quality or differences in viewing angle.

With that understood it is our opinion the two subjects of the forementioned

photo comparison could very likely be the same person.

photographs of the subjects, particularly if they are of better quality,

are obtained, we would be happy to examine those as well.

Antonio J. Mendez

Senior Operations Officer,

OTSGraphics and Authentication Division

30171

NW 65990 Docld:2219-32-39
---

