# DOCID-0687-32-39

##
Date:

0905-0-2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10435-10006

RECORD

SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: RUSS HOLMES WORK FILE

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM : DCCIRA

TO : CWHCOG

TITLE : MEMO: CUBANS AND THE GARRISON INVESTIGATION

DATE

: 1968-03-07

PAGES

1

SUBJECTS : PRESIDENT KENNEDY

SHAW, CLAY

DOCUMENT TYPE

: PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 1698-1-1

COMMENTS : JFK-RH02 : F050-1: 1998.11.16.10:15:54:3129-9-0

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55990 Date: 11-01-2021

-——.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10435-10006

NW 65990 Docld:0687-32-39.
---

##
SETTE

7 Maich 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Attention

SUBJECT

CWHCOG

Miss Nancye Gratz!

: Cubans and the Garrison Investigation

1. As you know, Garrison continues to charge that a group

of anti-Castro Cubans employed by CIA participated in the assassination

of President Kennedy. The fact that he continues to publicize this

accusation is of course cause for concem. You are also aware of the

memorandum by Calvin Thomas, formerly stationed in Miami, the subject

of which was "Possible DRE Animus Toward President Kennedy", "This

memorandum speculated about the possibility that CLA-associated Cubans

might have played a part in the assassination.

2. For these reasons we have reviewed our full file on the

Garrison case and have compiled a roster of all 47 Cubans who have been

linked to Garrison's case in any way to date.

Fourteen of these have not

previously been reported to you byCiRA.

3. It is requested that full checks be run against your files, and

those of the Miami Station, against all names not so traced to dale.

suggested that you consider ail Cubans who had any affiliation with CLA

from the point of view of known affiliations with Cuban exile groups and

with each other, so that we are forearmed as well as possible before the

trial of Clay Shaw et al, with its attendant publicity, gets under way..

Donovan E. Pratt

DCCIRA

Distribution:

Orig I!

- Addressee

Garrison reports file

WH Correspondence file

NW 65990 Docld:0687-32-39
---

