# DOCID-3935-32-39

##
Date:

0905-0-3

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY

RECORD NUMBER

RECORD SERIES

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: CIA

104-10422-10145

JFK

RUSS HOLMES WORK FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR

FROM

TO

TITLE

DATE

PAGES

CIA

MEXICO CITY

DIR

CABLE: PLAN FOR POLYGRAPHING ALVARADO |

:

1963-12-05

SUBJECTS : POLYGRAPH

JFK ASSASSINATION

DOCUMENT TYPE

PAPER

CLASSIFICATION

:, SECRET

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS

: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

0904-0-7

COMMENTS

JFK-RH11 : F202 : 0324-20-04-4660-10-6

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55990 Date: 11-01-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10422-10145

NW.65990 Docld:3935-32-39
---

##
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

41

5

: DIRECTOR

ROMA : MEXICO CITY

STIONS CH I

(WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1320, 5 DEC 63 LMS)

IFO

DEl, DDCI, DDP, CC1, CCISI, VR

SECRET 1731-9-5Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE

"RYBAT GPFLOOR

MEXI 7256

IN 3443-74-27

5 DEE 1963

DIES

FAVEL PROGRAM

Par ES TV.

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW

REE DIR 36976

CONDUCTED ON 24 MAY 197

E IMPDET CL BY CLA2 08

10 PETER KO WOODHEAD ARRIVED, LIFT SY ECOS AND GOT

CUSTOMS WITH NO PROBLEM.

50,00

THROUGH

20 AFTER CAREFUL STUDY WITH LEGAL ATTACHE HAVE DECIDED HOLD

INTERROGATION AT APARTMENT NO. 3, CALLE MERIDA 166, WHICH WAS

USED BY KUCLUS PERSONNEL FOR AEGENERATE Lo P. THIS

COMPLETELY BACKSTOPPED BY BEING RENTED FOR "VISITING AMERICANS"

NO FUTURE PLAN TO USE APARIMENT BY STATION. APARTMENT BUILDING HAS

NO WATCHMAN. NO ADJOINING APARTMENTS OR BUILDINGS. MESSRS CLARK

ANDERSOV AND JOE GARCIA OF LEGAL ATTACHE"

STUDIED APARTMENT ON

NIGHT OF 4 DECEMBER AND APPROVES OF US.

4. PLAN IS TO HAVE ANDERSON AND GARCIA PICK UP ALVARADO AND

BRING HIM TO APARTMENT. MEXICAN POLICE WILL ACCOMPANY TO APARIMENT

BUT WILL NOT REPEAT NOT ENTER BUILDING. ANDERSON ALONE WILL

INTERPRET FOR WOODHEAD.

SO WILL HAVE RESCISNO IN A BEDROOS TO MONITOR AND RECORD

INTERROGATION.

RESCIGNO WILL NOT BE BLOWN TO ANDERSON, GARCIA

OR TO MEXICANS.

for FOl A Review on

MAY

1975

SECRET

REPRODUCTION. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

8924-20-128

GROUP I

taztudod from aurorati

doringrading and

declossification

Copy No.

NW 65990 Docld:3935-32-39.
Document Number

---

##
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN

74273

_ PAGE 2

GO PLAN IS TO HAVE INTERROSATION BEGIN AT 140Ó MRS 5 DEG SHEXICO

CITY TINES, ADUDURN OVERVISHT AND CONTINUE MORNING OF 5 DECEMBER.

7O PLAN SEND COPY OF TAPES BY WOODHEAD IF POSSIBLES

SECRET

CS Comment: * Requested confirmation that Davis arrived at Mexico City

and passed through customs.

NW 65990 Docld:3935-32-39
---

