# DOCID-2046-32-36

##
JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER : 104-10120-10165

RECORD SERIES

: JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

:W.A. OSBORNE

TO : ACPERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION

TITLE

: OFFICE MEMORANDUM: HIDALGO, BALMES NIEVES, JR.

DATE

: 1956-08-06

PAGES

: 1

SUBJECTS : HIDALGO, BALMES

CLASSIFICATION

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 0997-0-8

COMMENTS

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note]. Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R]

... ... --

ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10120-10165

NW 65924 Docld:2046-32-36
---

##
IRD FORM NO. B4

SECRET

Srice Memorangum UNITED STATE.

GOVERNMENT

TO

Acting Chief, Personnel Security Division

DATE: 6 August 1956

FROM

:Acting Deputy Chief, Personnel Security Division

SUBJBCT: HIDALGO, Balmes Nieves,

Jr.

#05077:

I. On 20 October 1955 the Deputy Director of Security disapproved

Subject for staff employment.

He approved, however,

his continued use

on a contract basis.

The basis for this was Subject's past service as

an informant for the FBI.

2.;

แบกn 1 August 1956 Mr. Newton, WH Division, stated that the Panama

Station

was requesting approval to employ urs. Hidalgo as a contract en-

ployee.

Mr. Newton inquired as to

whether the decision in the case of

Subject would affect the decision in the case of urs. Faa go.

Subject is:

not in a covert status at this time.

At the most he is under Light cover

serving as a contract employee. Mr. Newton informs me that his duties

are performed in the Station, itself and that they are the

type of duties

which are normally performed by a staff employee and would have.

been

performed by a staff employee in this case if it were not for TO

limitations.

Mrs. Hidalgo's relationship with the Station would be no more

open and no more covert than Subjects.

4. It is therefore recommended that Mr. Newton be informed that the

decision previously made in the Subject case does not automatically

disqualify Mrs. Hidalgo from contract employment.

Osborne:

OSWAO: jem

.0 C

1954

Malenne

SECRET

NW-65924 Docid: 2046-32-36. Page2

---

