# DOCID-1327-32-33

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

0201-6-1

AGENCY:

FBI

RECORD NUMBER :

124-90096-10273

RECORD SERIES:

HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-2989-237

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM:

NY

TO:

HQ

TITLE:

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

66000 Date: 11-03-2021

DATE: 1967-07-28

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

CHARLES TOURINE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS :

4

CURRENT STATUS :

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 1998-07-20

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: RPT

v9. I

NW 66000 Docld:1327-32-33
---

##
NY 92-851

period. Further, after returning to the United States

he entered a hospital in NYC for an operation.

Following

a convalescent period, he again returned to Antigua where

he is currently residing.

Periodic spot checks were made at subject's

residence

in NYC by SAS CHARLES G. DONNELLY, JAMES. M.

MC ANDREW and PAUL G. DURKIN.

On

32207, subject was observed outside his

residence by

SAS MC ANDREW AND DURKIN

on 51267, two unknown associates of subject

were observed outside his residence by SAS DONNELLY

DURKIN.

Information from the NY Telephone Company was

furnished

by WILLIAM R. ENNIs, Security Supervisor, NY

Telephone Company, NYC.

INFORMANTS:

Identity of Source

NY T1

PCI ANN MC MANUS

NY T-2

NY 3610-C-TE

Contacted By

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and

CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SAS PAUL G. DURKIN and

CHARLES G. DONNELLY

SA PHILIP C. LEWIS

NY T-3

WF 1108-C

LEADS:

MIAMI, WASHINGION FIELD (INFORMATION)

One copy of this report is being sent to the

above offices since subject visits these divisions and

associates with various persons in them.

-B-

COVER PAGE

NW 66000 Docld:1327-32-33
---

