# DOCID-1623-32-36

##
Date: 3105-0-1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION

FORM

AGENCY. INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

:104-10119-10188

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE NUMBER

:

80T01357A

DOCUMENT

INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

SWIFT, GERALD J., OPERATIONS SUPPOR

: MULTIPLE ADDRESSEES

TITLE

DATE

: HEMMING,

GERALD PATRICK

: 1977-12-15

PAGES

:

4

SUBJECTS : HEMMING, GERALD

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER

CLASSIFICATION : CONFIDENTIAL

RESTRICTIONS

: 1A

CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

: 0497-0-7

COMMENTS : JFK43 : F4: 1997.07.04.15:19:50:3031-9-0 : PAGES 1 2

ARE ROUTING AND RECORD SHEETS

Heleased under the John F. Kennedy

assassination Records Collection Act o

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

65924 Date: 10:26-2021

[R]

- ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10119-10188

NW 65924 Docld:1623-32-36
---

##
UNCLASSIELED

RESNAL

ONLY

CONFIE

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

TAL

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Hemming., Gerald Patrick

FROM:

Gerald J.

Swift

Operations Support Branch

4E27

TO: (Officer designation, room number, ond,

building)..

EXTENSION

5365

NO

#429 229

DATE

415 December 1977:

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom

to whom.?

Drom o lin" across column offer rich comment.)

DC OSB

2.

COSB

3.

DC SSD

'DATE"

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1s ten AB.

15 мит г EN

16 kleen A

.5

sso COSB

In sivift

12

13.

610 USE

PREVIOUS

EDITIONS.

SECRET

19, I2501

MEMORANDUM

OF CALL

TO:

X YOU WERE CALLEd BY-

YOU WERE VISITED BY-

Hal Tittslen

OF (Organization)

PLEASE CALL -

I WILL CALL AGAIN

I RETURNED YOUR CALL

PHONE NO

CODEEXT.

O IS WAITING TO SEE YOU

WISHES AN APPOINTMENT

MESSAGE

When you call him back,

pls tell

him:

There is a file #429 229

on Gerald Patrick Hemming, bom

1 Mar 37 in LA.

This file

is

permanently charged to SAG.

There was NR on Ron(ald-?) Mongul

and also NR on variation Mongel

RECEIVED BY

W. 63

APO: 1960-068-18-60341-1 332-389

2:5C

63-108

CONFIDENTIAL

NW 65924 Docid: 1623-32-36
---

##
ONLY

LUNTI

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Hemming, Gerald Patrick.

FROM:

Gerald

Swift

Operations Support Branch

4E27

TO: (Officer designation, room

building).*

number, and,

RECEIVED

DATE AS

FORWARDED

EXTENSION

53:65

OFFICER'S

INITIAL:

NO.

# 429 229

DATE 1252

-15 December 19775

- COMMENTS (Number

to whom Draw o lin lach commen yo

show from

whom

after

each

comment.)

2:

3

ĐCOSB

VCOSB

DCSSD

CSSD COSB3

Mi swift

15 ме 12

16 de 12 A

I L Ki TT ED

to fing Brown,

6551

10.

12.

13

O0 USE PREVIOUS

EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL

USE ONLY.

UNCLASSIFIED

NW 65924 Docid: 1623-32-36
---

##
Gerald Patrick Hemming

#429

229

Do further SED ailms

shit St Desses

NW: 65924 Dg

---

##
CONFIDENTIAL

15 December 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Gerald J. Swift

Operations Support Branch

Gerald Patrick Hemming

#429 229

1. Hal Tittsler, ASAC, MFO called to request

a name check on Hemming and

a Ron Mongul or Mongel:

He new or song or be that y

2. Tittsler was advised that OS had no record

of Mongul or Mongel, but that a file existed on

3. Tittsler explained that the Miami DCD Office

was queried by the Dade County Organized Crime Division

as to whether or not Hemming ever worked for the CIA

in Mexico.

The same inquiry pertained to Mongel

or Mongul.

4. I told Hal that Hemming never worked for

the Cl A, and that he has falsely claimed to have

worked for the CIA on several occasions.

said that I thought this should be the limit of his

response other than to refer the Organized Crime

Division to the United States Attorney's Office in

Miami for further information concerning Hemming,

as he was to have been brought to trial there in

August 1977.

5.

I also advised Hal that inquiries of this

nature

should be formalized.

sinfit

Distribution:

Orig - File

1 - Chrono

OS: PSI: SSD: OSB: GJS: skc

E - 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 064

537

CONFIDENTIAL

---

