# DOCID-6893-32-36

##
Date: 1405-0-2

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA

RECORD NUMBER

104-10135-10099

RECORD

SERIES

JFK

AGENCY FILE

NUMBER

80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR : CIA

FROM

:CARY, GEORGE, OLC

TO :

TITLE : OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL JOURNAL, MONDAY,

JANUARY 1978 (PAGE 8) RE HSCA REQUEST OF 22 DEC 77.

DATE

PAGES

1978-01-09

SUBJECTS : OSWALD, MARINA

HSCA REQUEST

DOCUMENT TYPE

CLASSIFICATION

RESTRICTIONS

CURRENT STATUS

DATE OF LAST REVIEW

COMMENTS

PAPER

UNCLASSIFIED

1A

RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS

1497-1-0

JFK49: F106: 1997.10.14.09:46:18:6092-8-5

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

55924 Date: 10-26-2021

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

104-10135-10099

NW 65924 Docld:6893-32-36
---

##
INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel

Monday - 9 January 1978
hec

36. (Unclassified - RSG) LIAISON Took a call from Mickey

Goldsmith, Counsel, House Select Committee on Assassinations, who

requested that we attempt to expedite our search of all materials

relating to Alexis Davison who is identified as a Doctor at the U.S. Embassy

in Moscow who had occasion to examine Marina Oswald. This request

was transmitted to us on 22 December 1977. I indicated we would do the

best we could to expedite this priority.

37. (Unclassified - RLB) LEGISLATION Spoke with Elliot Maxwell,

on the staff of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and arranged to

meet with him and Mike O'Neil, on the staff of the House Permanent Select

Committee on Intelligence, on Wednesday, II January, to discuss the SSCI

redraft of Title I of the charter legislation, a copy of which is to be available

on the morning of 10 January. Representatives from OGC also will be

attending, and possibly IC Staff.

38. (Unclassified - RLB). LEGISLATION Called Mike O'Neil, on

the staff of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, to

inform him of our meeting with Elliot Maxwell, on the staff of the Senate

Select Committee on Intelligence, on Wednesday, II January, to discuss

charter legislation. I also confirmed that Mr. O'Neil had received a copy

of the DCI's 13 December 1977 draft Title I.

39. (Unclassified - JEC) LEGISLATION Called Tracey Cole, OMB,

to tell her that we would send her a copy of the Director's prepared statement

on electronic surveillance legislation to be given before the House Permanent

Select Committee on Intelligence Subcommittee on Legislation on 10 January.

I assured her that we were not saying anything controversial.

40. (Unclassified - PLC) LIAISON Met with Gary Cornwell, Deputy

Staff Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, and discussed

with him classification of a number of items requesting a check of Agency

records listed in G. Robert Blakey's, Chief Counsel and Director of the

Committee, letter of 6 January 1978. I explained to Cornwell the

reaction of Agency officers that it was necessary to provide more detail

in these requests. Cornwell said he would check with Blakey on the

points we raised and let me know.

reage a barg

GEORGE L. CAR

Legislative Counsel

cc: ODDCI Mr. Grinwis i Ex. Sec. DDA DDSI

Mr. Lapham Mr. Hetu

SADO0

IC Staff

Comptroller

NFAC

TE NAA

NW 65924 Docld:6893-32-36
17470

---

