# DOCID-2245-32-27

##
JFK Assassination System

Identification Form

Agency Information

Date:

8201-3-2

AGENCY: HSCA

RECORD NUMBER :

180-10143-10441

RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 29-26-02

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: HSCA

FROM:

CIA

TO :

TITLE :

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1 992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

56000 Date: 11-04-2021

DATE:

PAGES:

SUBJECTS :

0000-00-00

11

ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

CIA, FILES

LANZ, PEDRO DIAZ

JMWAVE

JMASH

DOCUMENT TYPE:

NOTES

CLASSIFICATION :

Unclassified

RESTRICTIONS:

1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS:

Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW :

2003-01-01

OPENING CRITERIA :

COMMENTS :

Box 21

v9.1

NW 66000 Docld:2245-32-27
---

##
PEDRO DIAZ LANZ

- News artides -

DDO

0662-11-11

April 1976

SECRET

- Dispatch to Chief from Chief

DELETED - GET FULL

COPY

Progress Rept 1-31 Aug 63 .

W help of Piorini- able to keep informed of

actisties of Diaz Lauz bros. in abempte to mount

air raid over cuba.

Information

men passed to local security agencies in time

for them to thwart plans.

C.

- Daily Summary -I Ane 63

Figlit Bf 28 Fuly over Havana aborted - bernbs

ledfet raid planned.

Plansi-

ossponed to 31 Fuly or tuf.

" Fiorini to head

for Marathow kays' as decoy for FBI sancillance

Lans bot to leave cars at homme to appear as

, are home, but will attempt to

tuogh They are homs pat ch mere Plane!

se used for raid i located. Fionni send

serrai sombo made fon

pone ma bombe cun donn to si ale

size and fled w nuts and bott for strapnel.

Ranoon Garcia former Cubas aireines picor

t0 have participated in raia. SECRET

- 8 may 63 - Fiorini told souree he had been

approached oy Marcos to patch up diference

NW 66000-Docld: 2451-32-27Page2-Cooperate m "anti-Cadro actint". Ses

---

##
0663-11-11

SECRET

money from Cuban in wash, who had helped

told That into speration would be

air strike - Pedro would be pilot..

rent plane

tum indireet channels.

Fanz bros. assisting m

sale of yacht.

"Forini had been working

a The bros. until a talling

our buniow is now ers cently

being repaired.".

investigation by u8. auth. harpered by stories -

made

drop.

for leafles

-Rorke claims

анек роила ол

man Code dale to pich

soni, swan portion flee fro

Andros ISland.

monti, Folinson charter plane in

pheras of pink flamingos..

Trumpser

Swanner

NW 66000 Docld:7225-3-2 Vege 3

---

##
0664-11-11

SECRETT

Porke daim (A Sponsorship

mond I. broger rep.ing tinger

CIA De: poss.

denied.

N what happened.

- Mr swanseis story of harity river swanne,

sonnser, Form

bout w leafless

Swanners

- Mrs. Swanner's reptd trip to Andros Iland

w her for and friend of hes husband..

- repterious phone callo to rs. Swanner,

us. Thempter 7 Othes

Ref. to rantino - prob. Fohn Lineent Martino :

sentenced to

,3 yes prisen mus; released

oct. 62 - not Dec as repta. was not s

nor ampld by CIA..

CRET

-NW 66000-Docld:7225-32-2-Page 4

---

##
22478

0665-11-11

Pedro Diar Lanz

SECREL

201

I

- 24 04 59 Routing Recond Sheet to Hunt reud 3010

forwarded Z vor. of Diar lauz file.

- GA watch offire 24 Oct 59.

into that plane teleted by Pedro Diar Laur to

drop laflets and prob bombs over Havana 24 OCt 55

ve Oct 59 piloted by haur to disrupt

- Dispatch 23 Oct 59.

re leaflet.

attached sample of lalets dropped tron Diaz laws';

Plene 21 oct 54.

- Dispater 18 Sept 59.

ne: operationae

chiet WHD from Havana Clis

0. gromp

crypts:

PDL

subt:

said he had fore to trians and talked w ADI

Oh; who told him that he heeded a man

for his Miami organization, the person he had

on mind was a

captain in the luban Air

the subject to see his

pr ofices exhiltration

subj. asked

us Habana contact (Gebaide or Pay rock) had This

NIA 3GOB0 Doeld 2245-32-27 Pagersation assumes that

That Than hid

obtained

---

##
22418

0666-11-11

SECREL

Lanz

207

PLDL

ROS

expiration into from ADCHAR. Subi also

said that QDI314S has ODXORE contacts

. in Miami

ODACID

- DOC. Cross ref for 201-9120-2-5 (Lanz 201 file)

passport 10693 left Costa Pira for Miami Fla a

24 Dec 58 and rentered Costa Rica from

Mexico on 31 Dec 58

Memo for record

7 Any 54..

Re: conversation

approx. One-wl prior, bet.

Engene R. Gontaler and Mer. Alfonso Moscoso,

ormer amb. from Ecuador to us ex brother-ona

of former President Galo Plaza of Ecuador.

Moscoso told me in strict confidence that has

food trend zenader. Amb to as (Escudero)

dained to have into and down. proving biaz Lanz

red approx 1100, 000 from pro-Batista

(roups to defec

I restify before u.s. lory.

Dispatch IN

: 59 . To Chief WH DIV from Miami

(karnley)

Re: Meeting n QDBIAS, A DCHAR;

QOCOVE

SECRETA

titlined plans in meetin

- subis will resist groups

rich bear Batista faint USuggest propaganda propra

biscussion of poss. aid; possible procedures - .

broadcaine pom various

NW.66000_ Docid:2245-32-27fetions in the Caribbean Sea.

---

##
22478

0567-11-11

SECRET

Pedro Diaz Lanz

DDO

p Icov E-described. at later of group, most intellig

Group was cautioned about need for security.

"However, there i a close and apparenth

unshakeable relationship with people like

Frank Fiorini Other people w whom

tales too much.

But as and I (sic) we

That trini and others are gang to

no or treed of their at he sad

-In March ADOr E went to Belf i rank of Amb..

a regotiate deal re: armo

Deal cost s8 mil whit

7D cove personally paid then letks of credit.

- Dispatch 4 Any 59.

To Chief WH Div from Miami (karl,

Report on Miami base involvement in Arrival of

Pedro Diaz Lana vi U.S.

Latz party - Diaz Lauz his wife Tania, fergio Draz

Brell; Carlos Echegoyen:

Echegoyen Briell had

chartered boat to pick up Diaz come. wanted to

hold party

no party several days.

- Diaz concerned

ADALUM, QDARBOR ASSi Sted hiding Diaz.

Major 0110 0f

Army nfired, wanted to talk

Diar despote Ci As adtempts to let him rest.

Tentative plan was diaz would taken from INS,

SECRET

put in a secure plece, mored to another area

in country, put thre intensive interrogation

ther removed to foreige are whose he would be

an a toes

NW 66000 Dold 2245-32-7 Peter faced. Gen. Cabele expected to diseuss matter suit

---

##
22478

0563-11-11

Pedro Dizz Laur

DDO

SECRET

re: tum over of Diaz to karnle

3. Complicationo the

ser in

o different vasions of what passed setw.

Gen Cabell

and Gen. swing; appearance of Eastland

committer rep.

- Article -Diew Pearson- Warsch Post - 7-24-54-" Defeeting

Cubew Chief Exploited.

(testified 144 Fuly)

Bomineht communists-

Fidel, Raue, Lilma Castro, Ernesto Guevara, Antonio

Nuner, Armando Hart, Manuel Pineiro,

Ramiro Valdez, fun

Pina, Anu Escalona,.

fuu Lanusa carlos Frangu, Oem. 1B940

david salvador,

Bayo, Frank torre.

- б.р. Гана

article.

11aul 54. "verdadera Estatura cinica de

Pedro Bares Diaz Laur

- CIA_

Memo of conversation 10 tal, 59.

Re:

Tel. conversation w Herbert Nice, Dir of Inteligen

Bureau of Imigration. w T.J. Flores.

- Draft hemo for Record FCK (inittaled)

8 Fuly 59 Re: Diaz Lauz case.

SECRETI

3y.

NW 66000-Docld: 2464-32-728ae8 They

were accompanied by Frank Piorini, moe

---

##
2418

SECRETI

0663-11-11

Pedro Diaz Lanz

DDO

citizen oreputation as shady onsinessman

They said schroeder (INs) told Diaz her is to

appear before senate sub Committee: would

receive 100 us goit support in overthroning

Castro.

- Prior 10 Diaz departure the luban fir Force.

purchased one c-46 and one B. 25 aircraft

in Miami area.

Aireraft in Biers Custod Sut

in Piorinis name.

Fiorini (untir 1 Fall)

- Discussion Paper - 1 Fuh

- Cable from Dir 10 "foreign 4.4. Stations 2 July 59

-Reguests max. press and radio exploration of

defectim 20 Funs of Diaz Lanz, w recommenda-

tions on particulars of story.

- Dispatch 2 Fah

y 1959 to Chief WHD from COS Hasona

he Diaz Lanz-Misc - enclosures- 2 copies of letter

fron Dizz sant to cuban president.

Cabla 22 Fune 54. TO Dir from Marana

Re: departure of Diaz Laur for U.9. Reguestin

ODURGE not divulge entry PBPRIME of pede

Diaz Lanz

-

Cable 21 June 59 to Dir from Havana.

Re: Diaz Lauz departure

w help of Him Bryet,

SECRET

American, Pres.

Aerodex Comp using Bryer yacht.

Lantequests no publictty.

NW 66000-Doeld 2245-32-27-Page 9

---

##
22478

Pedro Diaz hanz

0670-11-11

DDO.

SECRET

- Information Report 18 Jum 59

Re: Chief of Ain Forces Confidential statements abort need

Am counter revolution against Castro.

source: US businessman

броке

Castro's communist tendencies.

uf source regarding symptomo it

- Cable

7 Jan 59 to Dir from Santiago de Cuba.

Re: 1. paul Batista stunned Beyamo rebels.

e. Cubaw Air force demobilized. Will be built up brom

e coutt-marnaled...

"Source

- Cable-

25 Nor. 58. to Dir from Mex. City unpa-Michoacan, La

Rept 3 tons Cubaw rebel are contiscated

" cubans,

America captured - of Cubans- Pedro Ruiz Lanz

(probat Diaz (anz) and Amer Frauk Riorini...

Fiorini

rased co-pilot and oner plane C-46.

Fiorinikrown

as "Francisco' among Cubano.

Of miterest absence name ricardo de la Lorie

- Cable 22 Nor. 58

rept. Cuban rebels and Amer. wC-46 captured at

Captured (parsial Got)

Diaz

панг, Frank Fiorin.

- Cable 14 Nor 58

Rept Richarda de la Lovie - brought air plane phoening

Ariz., scheduled for departure iz or 13 Nor Br Verners

чех.

enronte venezuela. Diaz Lanz will prob. accompan

de la horie.

able I1 Nov. 58-

Draz Laur

NW 66000-Doct Bizardage de la Lorre

Via San Francisco. Fiorini Left rexi

---

##
SECRET

1067-11-1*

De Prosie by can can

car night 4 No N. meet pilots.

going triz. But expect retur

somo Hotel - toss. 1

inguan, triz reiplene

- Cable 2 Now 58 to Dir from Mex City.

Man trav. W subis identified ad Frank Prosini

an orie, Poss going benezuela

Pedro huiz Diaz Lanz and Ricardo de

so on and an a cite an ar

Unidentified man accompanied them

- Cable 19 Ay 58 to Din from San Juan.

Famaica poeire questiosed Riguero 14 tup Seching identics,

addresses

pice of Beecheratt plane N-48-9, who cisits kisston

Castro courier or pilot.

personal preetings-

- 201 file request

10 RI Analysis section 5 Fue 1959.

nou sensitive

_SECRET

NW 66000-Docld:2245-32-27- Page 11-

---

##
SECRET

0673-11-11

Pedro Diaz haur

DDO

3rd Aquay

Date

FILE It

Air force Hgs

7654

hone

USAIRA Maudua Al59 none

Army Ae SI-SC

Air Force

T159 none

71854 nore

Subjeet

Interview

several cables re Diaz

Memo for Rec - Diar

case.

NW 66000 Docld:2245-32-27
---

