# DOCID-6628-32-55

##
3-1-65

Airtel

3112-1054

To:

SAC, Chicago

From: Director, FBI

GUS ALEX, aka

AR

Released under the John F. Kennedy

Assassination Records Collection Act of

1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW

54578 Date: 10-14-2021

Enclosed is

a copy of an airtel from Legat Bem

requesting background information concering Alex to be

furnished to the Swiss Central Police Bureau.

Promptly

submit requested information for transmittal to Legat Bem.

Enc:

Jarmones

MAILED

MAR 2 - 1965

COMM-FBI

Tolson

Belmont

Mohr -

De Loach

Casper

Callahan

Conrad

Felt

Gale

Rosen

Sullivon

Tavel -

Trotter -

Tele. Room

Holmes

Gandy

Fjub

MARS

AIL ROOKI

TELETYPE UNIT

NW 64578 Docld:6628-32-55
---

##
FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56)

Transmit the following in

Via

AIRTEL

FBI.

Date:

22365

(Type in plain text or code)

(Priority or Method of Mailing)

TO : Director, FBI (92-3182)

Legat, Bem (92-10) (P)

GUS

ALEX,

aka

AR

weal

Re Paris letter 21165 and Bem airtel 2464.

It was observed that ALEX was listed in the Swiss

Police Monitor No. 30 dated 21265, page 421, item 4303, as

being the subject

ot an entry ban for Switzerland.

HANS-PETER WYSSMANN, Swiss Federal Department of

Justice and Police, informed confidentially on 21765 that

this ban by the Swiss Aliens Police was issued at the request

I the zurich Cantona Poce

WYSSMANN noted that ALEX

vould be tormed of the ban through the Swiss Consulate i

Chicago. The reason given for the ban was undesireable

foreigner

No further explanation would be given ALEX by

the Swiss authorities. He would have the right to appeal,

was little chance of the appeal being successful.

As a matter of precaution, the Swiss Police have

been requested not to disclose the Bureau as the source of

any information concerning ALEX.

The Bureau is requested to furnish the following

information concerning ALEX at the desire of the

Swiss

Central Police Bureau:

REC- 56

3182-9-2-1054

cutezico

*. 1 FEB-26 1965

321-65

Bureau

(1 - Liaison):

(1 - Chicago) (92-373)

1 - Bonn (info) (direct)

1 - Paris (info) (direct)

1. - Rome (info) (direct)

CC "

Kick

1 - Bem

Sent

- M

Special Agent in Charge

NW 64578 Docld:6628-32-55
---

